CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to EvalView

Thanks for your interest in contributing! This guide will help you get started.

## Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view.git
cd eval-view
```

### Option A: Using uv (faster, recommended)

```bash
# Install uv if you don't have it
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Install dependencies (creates .venv automatically)
uv sync --all-extras
```

### Option B: Using pip (traditional)

```bash
# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install in development mode
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

## Development Workflow

### Running Tests

**With uv (faster):**
```bash
make test           # or: uv run pytest
make test-cov       # with coverage
```

**With pip:**
```bash
make pip-test       # or: pytest
make pip-test-cov   # with coverage
```

### Code Quality

**With uv:**
```bash
make format      # Format with black
make lint        # Lint with ruff
make typecheck   # Type check with mypy
make check       # Run all checks
```

**With pip:**
```bash
make pip-format      # Format with black
make pip-lint        # Lint with ruff
make pip-typecheck   # Type check with mypy
make pip-check       # Run all checks
```

### Quick Commands

| uv (faster) | pip (traditional) | Description |
|-------------|-------------------|-------------|
| `make install` | `make pip-install` | Install package |
| `make dev-install` | `make pip-dev` | Install with dev extras |
| `make test` | `make pip-test` | Run tests |
| `make format` | `make pip-format` | Format with black |
| `make lint` | `make pip-lint` | Lint with ruff |
| `make typecheck` | `make pip-typecheck` | Type check with mypy |
| `make check` | `make pip-check` | Run all checks |
| `make clean` | `make clean` | Clean build artifacts |

## Project Structure

```
evalview/
├── core/           # Core types and utilities
│   ├── types.py    # Pydantic models
│   ├── loader.py   # Test case loader
│   └── pricing.py  # Cost calculation
├── adapters/       # Agent communication
│   ├── base.py     # Abstract adapter
│   ├── http_adapter.py
│   └── tapescope_adapter.py
├── evaluators/     # Evaluation logic
│   ├── evaluator.py           # Main orchestrator
│   ├── tool_call_evaluator.py
│   ├── sequence_evaluator.py
│   ├── output_evaluator.py
│   ├── cost_evaluator.py
│   └── latency_evaluator.py
├── reporters/      # Result formatting
│   ├── json_reporter.py
│   └── console_reporter.py
└── cli.py          # CLI entry point
```

## Adding a New Evaluator

Evaluators assess specific aspects of agent behavior. Here's how to add one:

### 1. Create the Evaluator

Create a new file in `evalview/evaluators/`:

```python
# evalview/evaluators/my_evaluator.py
from typing import Any, Dict
from evalview.core.types import TestCase, ExecutionTrace

class MyEvaluator:
    """Evaluates [what aspect] of agent execution."""

    def evaluate(
        self,
        test_case: TestCase,
        trace: ExecutionTrace
    ) -> Dict[str, Any]:
        """
        Evaluate the execution trace.

        Args:
            test_case: Test case with expected behavior
            trace: Actual execution trace from agent

        Returns:
            Dictionary with evaluation results
        """
        # Your evaluation logic here
        passed = True  # Your logic
        score = 100.0  # Your scoring

        return {
            "passed": passed,
            "score": score,
            "details": "Explanation of results",
        }
```

### 2. Add Result Type

Update `evalview/core/types.py` to include your result type:

```python
class MyEvaluationResult(BaseModel):
    """Result from my evaluator."""
    passed: bool
    score: float
    details: str
```

Add it to the `Evaluations` model:

```python
class Evaluations(BaseModel):
    tool_accuracy: ToolAccuracyResult
    sequence_correctness: SequenceCorrectnessResult
    output_quality: OutputQualityResult
    cost: CostResult
    latency: LatencyResult
    my_evaluation: MyEvaluationResult  # Add this
```

### 3. Integrate into Main Evaluator

Update `evalview/evaluators/evaluator.py`:

```python
from evalview.evaluators.my_evaluator import MyEvaluator

class Evaluator:
    def __init__(self, openai_api_key: Optional[str] = None):
        # ... existing evaluators ...
        self.my_evaluator = MyEvaluator()

    async def evaluate(
        self, test_case: TestCase, trace: ExecutionTrace
    ) -> EvaluationResult:
        evaluations = Evaluations(
            # ... existing evaluations ...
            my_evaluation=self.my_evaluator.evaluate(test_case, trace),
        )
        # ...
```

### 4. Update Scoring (Optional)

If your evaluator should affect the overall score, update `_compute_overall_score`:

```python
def _compute_overall_score(
    self, evaluations: Evaluations, test_case: TestCase
) -> float:
    weights = {
        "tool_accuracy": 0.25,      # Adjusted
        "output_quality": 0.45,     # Adjusted
        "sequence_correctness": 0.15,  # Adjusted
        "my_evaluation": 0.15,      # New
    }

    score = (
        # ... existing calculations ...
        + evaluations.my_evaluation.score * weights["my_evaluation"]
    )
    return round(score, 2)
```

### 5. Write Tests

Create tests in `tests/test_my_evaluator.py`:

```python
import pytest
from evalview.evaluators.my_evaluator import MyEvaluator
from evalview.core.types import TestCase, ExecutionTrace

def test_my_evaluator():
    evaluator = MyEvaluator()

    # Create test data
    test_case = TestCase(...)
    trace = ExecutionTrace(...)

    # Run evaluation
    result = evaluator.evaluate(test_case, trace)

    # Assert results
    assert result["passed"] is True
    assert result["score"] == 100.0
```

### 6. Update Documentation

- Add your evaluator to the "Evaluation Metrics" section in README.md
- Document any new test case fields it uses
- Add examples showing how to use it

## Creating a Custom Adapter

> **⚠️ EXPERIMENTAL**: The adapter registry system is experimental and may change in future versions.

Adapters handle communication with different AI agent frameworks. Here's how to create one:

### 1. Create the Adapter

Create a new file in `evalview/adapters/`:

```python
# evalview/adapters/my_adapter.py
from datetime import datetime
from typing import Any, Dict, List, Optional, Set
import httpx
import logging

from evalview.adapters.base import AgentAdapter
from evalview.core.types import (
    ExecutionTrace,
    StepTrace,
    StepMetrics,
    ExecutionMetrics,
    TokenUsage,
)

logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)


class MyAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for MyFramework agents.

    Supports:
    - Standard REST API
    - Your framework's specific response format

    Security Note:
        SSRF protection is enabled by default.
    """

    def __init__(
        self,
        endpoint: str,
        headers: Optional[Dict[str, str]] = None,
        timeout: float = 30.0,
        verbose: bool = False,
        model_config: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None,
        allow_private_urls: bool = False,
        allowed_hosts: Optional[Set[str]] = None,
    ):
        # Set SSRF protection settings BEFORE validation
        self.allow_private_urls = allow_private_urls
        self.allowed_hosts = allowed_hosts

        # Validate endpoint URL for SSRF protection
        self.endpoint = self.validate_endpoint(endpoint)

        self.headers = headers or {"Content-Type": "application/json"}
        self.timeout = timeout
        self.verbose = verbose
        self.model_config = model_config or {}
        self._last_raw_response = None  # For debug mode

    @property
    def name(self) -> str:
        return "my-adapter"

    async def execute(
        self, query: str, context: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None
    ) -> ExecutionTrace:
        """Execute agent and capture trace."""
        context = context or {}
        start_time = datetime.now()

        # Make API request
        async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=self.timeout) as client:
            response = await client.post(
                self.endpoint,
                json={"query": query, **context},
                headers=self.headers,
            )
            response.raise_for_status()
            data = response.json()

        end_time = datetime.now()

        # Store raw response for debug mode
        self._last_raw_response = data

        # Parse response into ExecutionTrace
        steps = self._parse_steps(data)
        final_output = self._extract_output(data)
        metrics = self._calculate_metrics(data, steps, start_time, end_time)

        return ExecutionTrace(
            session_id=data.get("session_id", f"my-{start_time.timestamp()}"),
            start_time=start_time,
            end_time=end_time,
            steps=steps,
            final_output=final_output,
            metrics=metrics,
        )

    def _parse_steps(self, data: Dict[str, Any]) -> List[StepTrace]:
        """Parse steps from API response."""
        steps = []

        for i, step_data in enumerate(data.get("steps", [])):
            step = StepTrace(
                step_id=step_data.get("id", f"step-{i}"),
                step_name=step_data.get("name", f"Step {i+1}"),
                tool_name=step_data.get("tool") or "unknown",  # Handle None
                parameters=step_data.get("params", {}),
                output=step_data.get("output", ""),
                success=step_data.get("success", True),
                error=step_data.get("error"),
                metrics=StepMetrics(
                    latency=step_data.get("latency", 0.0),  # Defaults to 0.0
                    cost=step_data.get("cost", 0.0),
                    tokens=step_data.get("tokens"),  # Can be int, dict, or None
                ),
            )
            steps.append(step)

        return steps

    def _extract_output(self, data: Dict[str, Any]) -> str:
        """Extract final output - try multiple field names."""
        return (
            data.get("response")
            or data.get("output")
            or data.get("result")
            or ""
        )

    def _calculate_metrics(
        self,
        data: Dict[str, Any],
        steps: List[StepTrace],
        start_time: datetime,
        end_time: datetime,
    ) -> ExecutionMetrics:
        """Calculate execution metrics."""
        total_latency = (end_time - start_time).total_seconds() * 1000

        # Get tokens - can be int or TokenUsage (validators handle coercion)
        total_tokens = data.get("total_tokens")

        # If not in response, aggregate from steps
        if not total_tokens:
            input_sum = sum(
                s.metrics.tokens.input_tokens
                for s in steps if s.metrics.tokens
            )
            output_sum = sum(
                s.metrics.tokens.output_tokens
                for s in steps if s.metrics.tokens
            )
            if input_sum + output_sum > 0:
                total_tokens = TokenUsage(
                    input_tokens=input_sum,
                    output_tokens=output_sum,
                )

        return ExecutionMetrics(
            total_cost=data.get("cost", 0.0),
            total_latency=total_latency,
            total_tokens=total_tokens,  # int, dict, TokenUsage, or None - all work
        )

    async def health_check(self) -> bool:
        """Check if endpoint is reachable."""
        try:
            async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=5.0) as client:
                response = await client.get(self.endpoint.replace("/invoke", "/health"))
                return response.status_code in [200, 201, 404]
        except Exception:
            return False
```

### 2. Common Pitfalls to Avoid

**Token type errors:**
```python
# WRONG: Returning int directly
return ExecutionMetrics(total_tokens=1500)

# RIGHT: EvalView auto-coerces, but explicit is better
return ExecutionMetrics(total_tokens=TokenUsage(output_tokens=1500))
```

**Missing defaults for StepMetrics:**
```python
# WRONG: Will fail if latency/cost missing
metrics=StepMetrics(
    latency=step_data.get("latency"),  # Could be None
    cost=step_data.get("cost"),
)

# RIGHT: Provide defaults
metrics=StepMetrics(
    latency=step_data.get("latency", 0.0),
    cost=step_data.get("cost", 0.0),
)
```

**Datetime handling:**
```python
# WRONG: Passing string
start_time="2025-01-15T10:30:00"

# RIGHT: Use datetime objects
start_time=datetime.now()
# Or let validators coerce ISO strings (v1.x+)
```

**SSRF protection order:**
```python
# WRONG: Setting allow_private_urls after validation
self.endpoint = self.validate_endpoint(endpoint)
self.allow_private_urls = allow_private_urls  # Too late!

# RIGHT: Set BEFORE calling validate_endpoint
self.allow_private_urls = allow_private_urls
self.endpoint = self.validate_endpoint(endpoint)
```

### 3. Register in CLI

Update `evalview/cli.py` to include your adapter:

```python
from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyAdapter

# In the run command, add to adapter selection:
elif adapter_type == "my-adapter":
    adapter = MyAdapter(
        endpoint=config["endpoint"],
        headers=config.get("headers", {}),
        timeout=config.get("timeout", 30.0),
        verbose=verbose,
        model_config=model_config,
        allow_private_urls=allow_private_urls,
    )
```

### 4. Write Tests

Create `tests/test_my_adapter.py`:

```python
import pytest
from datetime import datetime
from unittest.mock import AsyncMock, patch

from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyAdapter
from evalview.core.types import TokenUsage


class TestMyAdapter:
    """Tests for MyAdapter."""

    def test_name_property(self):
        adapter = MyAdapter(
            endpoint="http://localhost:8000",
            allow_private_urls=True,
        )
        assert adapter.name == "my-adapter"

    @pytest.mark.asyncio
    async def test_execute_basic(self):
        adapter = MyAdapter(
            endpoint="http://localhost:8000",
            allow_private_urls=True,
        )

        mock_response = {
            "session_id": "test-123",
            "steps": [
                {"tool": "search", "output": "results"},
            ],
            "response": "Final answer",
            "total_tokens": 1500,
        }

        with patch.object(adapter, '_make_request', return_value=mock_response):
            trace = await adapter.execute("test query")

            assert trace.session_id == "test-123"
            assert len(trace.steps) == 1
            assert trace.steps[0].tool_name == "search"
            assert trace.final_output == "Final answer"

    def test_token_coercion(self):
        """Test that integer tokens are coerced to TokenUsage."""
        adapter = MyAdapter(
            endpoint="http://localhost:8000",
            allow_private_urls=True,
        )

        data = {"total_tokens": 1500}
        metrics = adapter._calculate_metrics(
            data, [], datetime.now(), datetime.now()
        )

        # Should be coerced to TokenUsage by Pydantic validators
        assert isinstance(metrics.total_tokens, TokenUsage)
```

### 5. Validate Your Adapter

Use the built-in validator:

```bash
# Test your adapter
evalview validate-adapter --endpoint http://localhost:8000 --adapter my-adapter

# With custom query
evalview validate-adapter --endpoint http://localhost:8000 --adapter my-adapter --query "Hello"
```

## Testing Your Changes

### Manual Testing

```bash
# Initialize a test project
evalview init --dir /tmp/test-evalview

# Create a simple test case
cat > /tmp/test-evalview/tests/test-cases/simple.yaml <<EOF
name: "Simple Test"
input:
  query: "Hello"
expected:
  tools: []
  output:
    contains: ["hello"]
thresholds:
  min_score: 0
  max_cost: 1.0
  max_latency: 10000
EOF

# Run tests
cd /tmp/test-evalview
evalview run --verbose
```

### Automated Testing

```bash
# Run test suite
make test

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/test_my_evaluator.py

# Run with verbose output
pytest -v tests/test_my_evaluator.py
```

## Code Style

- **Formatting**: Use `black` with 100-character line length
- **Linting**: Use `ruff` for code quality
- **Type hints**: All functions should have type annotations
- **Docstrings**: Use Google-style docstrings for public APIs

Example:

```python
def my_function(arg1: str, arg2: int) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """
    One-line summary of the function.

    Longer description if needed.

    Args:
        arg1: Description of arg1
        arg2: Description of arg2

    Returns:
        Description of return value

    Raises:
        ValueError: When something goes wrong
    """
    pass
```

## Commit Guidelines

- Use clear, descriptive commit messages
- Prefix commits with type: `feat:`, `fix:`, `docs:`, `refactor:`, `test:`
- Examples:
  - `feat: add token usage tracking to cost evaluator`
  - `fix: handle missing tool_name in HTTP adapter`
  - `docs: update CONTRIBUTING with evaluator guide`

## Pull Request Process

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create a branch**: `git checkout -b feat/my-feature`
3. **Make changes** and commit with clear messages
4. **Run checks**: `make check` (format, lint, typecheck)
5. **Run tests**: `make test`
6. **Push**: `git push origin feat/my-feature`
7. **Open PR** with description of changes

### PR Checklist

- [ ] Code follows style guidelines (`make check` passes)
- [ ] Tests pass (`make test` passes)
- [ ] New code has tests
- [ ] Documentation updated (README, docstrings)
- [ ] CHANGELOG updated (if applicable)

## Questions?

- Open an [issue](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/issues)
- Start a [discussion](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/discussions)

---

**Thank you for contributing to EvalView!** 🎉

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to EvalView — The Open-Source AI Agent Testing Framework

> EvalView is an open-source, pytest-style testing and regression detection framework for AI agents. Contributions are welcome! This guide covers development setup, architecture, coding standards, and how to submit changes.

## Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view.git
cd eval-view
```

### Option A: Using uv (faster, recommended)

```bash
# Install uv if you don't have it
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Install dependencies (creates .venv automatically)
uv sync --all-extras
```

### Option B: Using pip (traditional)

```bash
# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install in development mode
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

## Development Workflow

### Running Tests

**With uv (faster):**
```bash
make test           # or: uv run pytest
make test-cov       # with coverage
```

**With pip:**
```bash
make pip-test       # or: pytest
make pip-test-cov   # with coverage
```

### Code Quality

**With uv:**
```bash
make format      # Format with black
make lint        # Lint with ruff
make typecheck   # Type check with mypy
make check       # Run all checks
```

**With pip:**
```bash
make pip-format      # Format with black
make pip-lint        # Lint with ruff
make pip-typecheck   # Type check with mypy
make pip-check       # Run all checks
```

### Quick Commands

| uv (faster) | pip (traditional) | Description |
|-------------|-------------------|-------------|
| `make install` | `make pip-install` | Install package |
| `make dev-install` | `make pip-dev` | Install with dev extras |
| `make test` | `make pip-test` | Run tests |
| `make format` | `make pip-format` | Format with black |
| `make lint` | `make pip-lint` | Lint with ruff |
| `make typecheck` | `make pip-typecheck` | Type check with mypy |
| `make check` | `make pip-check` | Run all checks |
| `make clean` | `make clean` | Clean build artifacts |

## Project Structure

```
evalview/
├── core/           # Core types and utilities
│   ├── types.py    # Pydantic models
│   ├── loader.py   # Test case loader
│   └── pricing.py  # Cost calculation
├── adapters/       # Agent communication
│   ├── base.py     # Abstract adapter
│   ├── http_adapter.py
│   └── tapescope_adapter.py
├── evaluators/     # Evaluation logic
│   ├── evaluator.py           # Main orchestrator
│   ├── tool_call_evaluator.py
│   ├── sequence_evaluator.py
│   ├── output_evaluator.py
│   ├── cost_evaluator.py
│   └── latency_evaluator.py
├── reporters/      # Result formatting
│   ├── json_reporter.py
│   └── console_reporter.py
└── cli.py          # CLI entry point
```

## Adding a New Evaluator

Evaluators assess specific aspects of agent behavior. Here's how to add one:

### 1. Create the Evaluator

Create a new file in `evalview/evaluators/`:

```python
# evalview/evaluators/my_evaluator.py
from typing import Any, Dict
from evalview.core.types import TestCase, ExecutionTrace

class MyEvaluator:
    """Evaluates [what aspect] of agent execution."""

    def evaluate(
        self,
        test_case: TestCase,
        trace: ExecutionTrace
    ) -> Dict[str, Any]:
        """
        Evaluate the execution trace.

        Args:
            test_case: Test case with expected behavior
            trace: Actual execution trace from agent

        Returns:
            Dictionary with evaluation results
        """
        # Your evaluation logic here
        passed = True  # Your logic
        score = 100.0  # Your scoring

        return {
            "passed": passed,
            "score": score,
            "details": "Explanation of results",
        }
```

### 2. Add Result Type

Update `evalview/core/types.py` to include your result type:

```python
class MyEvaluationResult(BaseModel):
    """Result from my evaluator."""
    passed: bool
    score: float
    details: str
```

Add it to the `Evaluations` model:

```python
class Evaluations(BaseModel):
    tool_accuracy: ToolAccuracyResult
    sequence_correctness: SequenceCorrectnessResult
    output_quality: OutputQualityResult
    cost: CostResult
    latency: LatencyResult
    my_evaluation: MyEvaluationResult  # Add this
```

### 3. Integrate into Main Evaluator

Update `evalview/evaluators/evaluator.py`:

```python
from evalview.evaluators.my_evaluator import MyEvaluator

class Evaluator:
    def __init__(self, openai_api_key: Optional[str] = None):
        # ... existing evaluators ...
        self.my_evaluator = MyEvaluator()

    async def evaluate(
        self, test_case: TestCase, trace: ExecutionTrace
    ) -> EvaluationResult:
        evaluations = Evaluations(
            # ... existing evaluations ...
            my_evaluation=self.my_evaluator.evaluate(test_case, trace),
        )
        # ...
```

### 4. Update Scoring (Optional)

If your evaluator should affect the overall score, update `_compute_overall_score`:

```python
def _compute_overall_score(
    self, evaluations: Evaluations, test_case: TestCase
) -> float:
    weights = {
        "tool_accuracy": 0.25,      # Adjusted
        "output_quality": 0.45,     # Adjusted
        "sequence_correctness": 0.15,  # Adjusted
        "my_evaluation": 0.15,      # New
    }

    score = (
        # ... existing calculations ...
        + evaluations.my_evaluation.score * weights["my_evaluation"]
    )
    return round(score, 2)
```

### 5. Write Tests

Create tests in `tests/test_my_evaluator.py`:

```python
import pytest
from evalview.evaluators.my_evaluator import MyEvaluator
from evalview.core.types import TestCase, ExecutionTrace

def test_my_evaluator():
    evaluator = MyEvaluator()

    # Create test data
    test_case = TestCase(...)
    trace = ExecutionTrace(...)

    # Run evaluation
    result = evaluator.evaluate(test_case, trace)

    # Assert results
    assert result["passed"] is True
    assert result["score"] == 100.0
```

### 6. Update Documentation

- Add your evaluator to the "Evaluation Metrics" section in README.md
- Document any new test case fields it uses
- Add examples showing how to use it

## Creating a Custom Adapter

> **⚠️ EXPERIMENTAL**: The adapter registry system is experimental and may change in future versions.

Adapters handle communication with different AI agent frameworks. Here's how to create one:

### 1. Create the Adapter

Create a new file in `evalview/adapters/`:

```python
# evalview/adapters/my_adapter.py
from datetime import datetime
from typing import Any, Dict, List, Optional, Set
import httpx
import logging

from evalview.adapters.base import AgentAdapter
from evalview.core.types import (
    ExecutionTrace,
    StepTrace,
    StepMetrics,
    ExecutionMetrics,
    TokenUsage,
)

logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)


class MyAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for MyFramework agents.

    Supports:
    - Standard REST API
    - Your framework's specific response format

    Security Note:
        SSRF protection is enabled by default.
    """

    def __init__(
        self,
        endpoint: str,
        headers: Optional[Dict[str, str]] = None,
        timeout: float = 30.0,
        verbose: bool = False,
        model_config: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None,
        allow_private_urls: bool = False,
        allowed_hosts: Optional[Set[str]] = None,
    ):
        # Set SSRF protection settings BEFORE validation
        self.allow_private_urls = allow_private_urls
        self.allowed_hosts = allowed_hosts

        # Validate endpoint URL for SSRF protection
        self.endpoint = self.validate_endpoint(endpoint)

        self.headers = headers or {"Content-Type": "application/json"}
        self.timeout = timeout
        self.verbose = verbose
        self.model_config = model_config or {}
        self._last_raw_response = None  # For debug mode

    @property
    def name(self) -> str:
        return "my-adapter"

    async def execute(
        self, query: str, context: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None
    ) -> ExecutionTrace:
        """Execute agent and capture trace."""
        context = context or {}
        start_time = datetime.now()

        # Make API request
        async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=self.timeout) as client:
            response = await client.post(
                self.endpoint,
                json={"query": query, **context},
                headers=self.headers,
            )
            response.raise_for_status()
            data = response.json()

        end_time = datetime.now()

        # Store raw response for debug mode
        self._last_raw_response = data

        # Parse response into ExecutionTrace
        steps = self._parse_steps(data)
        final_output = self._extract_output(data)
        metrics = self._calculate_metrics(data, steps, start_time, end_time)

        return ExecutionTrace(
            session_id=data.get("session_id", f"my-{start_time.timestamp()}"),
            start_time=start_time,
            end_time=end_time,
            steps=steps,
            final_output=final_output,
            metrics=metrics,
        )

    def _parse_steps(self, data: Dict[str, Any]) -> List[StepTrace]:
        """Parse steps from API response."""
        steps = []

        for i, step_data in enumerate(data.get("steps", [])):
            step = StepTrace(
                step_id=step_data.get("id", f"step-{i}"),
                step_name=step_data.get("name", f"Step {i+1}"),
                tool_name=step_data.get("tool") or "unknown",  # Handle None
                parameters=step_data.get("params", {}),
                output=step_data.get("output", ""),
                success=step_data.get("success", True),
                error=step_data.get("error"),
                metrics=StepMetrics(
                    latency=step_data.get("latency", 0.0),  # Defaults to 0.0
                    cost=step_data.get("cost", 0.0),
                    tokens=step_data.get("tokens"),  # Can be int, dict, or None
                ),
            )
            steps.append(step)

        return steps

    def _extract_output(self, data: Dict[str, Any]) -> str:
        """Extract final output - try multiple field names."""
        return (
            data.get("response")
            or data.get("output")
            or data.get("result")
            or ""
        )

    def _calculate_metrics(
        self,
        data: Dict[str, Any],
        steps: List[StepTrace],
        start_time: datetime,
        end_time: datetime,
    ) -> ExecutionMetrics:
        """Calculate execution metrics."""
        total_latency = (end_time - start_time).total_seconds() * 1000

        # Get tokens - can be int or TokenUsage (validators handle coercion)
        total_tokens = data.get("total_tokens")

        # If not in response, aggregate from steps
        if not total_tokens:
            input_sum = sum(
                s.metrics.tokens.input_tokens
                for s in steps if s.metrics.tokens
            )
            output_sum = sum(
                s.metrics.tokens.output_tokens
                for s in steps if s.metrics.tokens
            )
            if input_sum + output_sum > 0:
                total_tokens = TokenUsage(
                    input_tokens=input_sum,
                    output_tokens=output_sum,
                )

        return ExecutionMetrics(
            total_cost=data.get("cost", 0.0),
            total_latency=total_latency,
            total_tokens=total_tokens,  # int, dict, TokenUsage, or None - all work
        )

    async def health_check(self) -> bool:
        """Check if endpoint is reachable."""
        try:
            async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=5.0) as client:
                response = await client.get(self.endpoint.replace("/invoke", "/health"))
                return response.status_code in [200, 201, 404]
        except Exception:
            return False
```

### 2. Common Pitfalls to Avoid

**Token type errors:**
```python
# WRONG: Returning int directly
return ExecutionMetrics(total_tokens=1500)

# RIGHT: EvalView auto-coerces, but explicit is better
return ExecutionMetrics(total_tokens=TokenUsage(output_tokens=1500))
```

**Missing defaults for StepMetrics:**
```python
# WRONG: Will fail if latency/cost missing
metrics=StepMetrics(
    latency=step_data.get("latency"),  # Could be None
    cost=step_data.get("cost"),
)

# RIGHT: Provide defaults
metrics=StepMetrics(
    latency=step_data.get("latency", 0.0),
    cost=step_data.get("cost", 0.0),
)
```

**Datetime handling:**
```python
# WRONG: Passing string
start_time="2025-01-15T10:30:00"

# RIGHT: Use datetime objects
start_time=datetime.now()
# Or let validators coerce ISO strings (v1.x+)
```

**SSRF protection order:**
```python
# WRONG: Setting allow_private_urls after validation
self.endpoint = self.validate_endpoint(endpoint)
self.allow_private_urls = allow_private_urls  # Too late!

# RIGHT: Set BEFORE calling validate_endpoint
self.allow_private_urls = allow_private_urls
self.endpoint = self.validate_endpoint(endpoint)
```

### 3. Register in CLI

Update `evalview/cli.py` to include your adapter:

```python
from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyAdapter

# In the run command, add to adapter selection:
elif adapter_type == "my-adapter":
    adapter = MyAdapter(
        endpoint=config["endpoint"],
        headers=config.get("headers", {}),
        timeout=config.get("timeout", 30.0),
        verbose=verbose,
        model_config=model_config,
        allow_private_urls=allow_private_urls,
    )
```

### 4. Write Tests

Create `tests/test_my_adapter.py`:

```python
import pytest
from datetime import datetime
from unittest.mock import AsyncMock, patch

from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyAdapter
from evalview.core.types import TokenUsage


class TestMyAdapter:
    """Tests for MyAdapter."""

    def test_name_property(self):
        adapter = MyAdapter(
            endpoint="http://localhost:8000",
            allow_private_urls=True,
        )
        assert adapter.name == "my-adapter"

    @pytest.mark.asyncio
    async def test_execute_basic(self):
        adapter = MyAdapter(
            endpoint="http://localhost:8000",
            allow_private_urls=True,
        )

        mock_response = {
            "session_id": "test-123",
            "steps": [
                {"tool": "search", "output": "results"},
            ],
            "response": "Final answer",
            "total_tokens": 1500,
        }

        with patch.object(adapter, '_make_request', return_value=mock_response):
            trace = await adapter.execute("test query")

            assert trace.session_id == "test-123"
            assert len(trace.steps) == 1
            assert trace.steps[0].tool_name == "search"
            assert trace.final_output == "Final answer"

    def test_token_coercion(self):
        """Test that integer tokens are coerced to TokenUsage."""
        adapter = MyAdapter(
            endpoint="http://localhost:8000",
            allow_private_urls=True,
        )

        data = {"total_tokens": 1500}
        metrics = adapter._calculate_metrics(
            data, [], datetime.now(), datetime.now()
        )

        # Should be coerced to TokenUsage by Pydantic validators
        assert isinstance(metrics.total_tokens, TokenUsage)
```

### 5. Validate Your Adapter

Use the built-in validator:

```bash
# Test your adapter
evalview validate-adapter --endpoint http://localhost:8000 --adapter my-adapter

# With custom query
evalview validate-adapter --endpoint http://localhost:8000 --adapter my-adapter --query "Hello"
```

## Testing Your Changes

### Manual Testing

```bash
# Initialize a test project
evalview init --dir /tmp/test-evalview

# Create a simple test case
cat > /tmp/test-evalview/tests/test-cases/simple.yaml <<EOF
name: "Simple Test"
input:
  query: "Hello"
expected:
  tools: []
  output:
    contains: ["hello"]
thresholds:
  min_score: 0
  max_cost: 1.0
  max_latency: 10000
EOF

# Run tests
cd /tmp/test-evalview
evalview run --verbose
```

### Automated Testing

```bash
# Run test suite
make test

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/test_my_evaluator.py

# Run with verbose output
pytest -v tests/test_my_evaluator.py
```

## Code Style

- **Formatting**: Use `black` with 100-character line length
- **Linting**: Use `ruff` for code quality
- **Type hints**: All functions should have type annotations
- **Docstrings**: Use Google-style docstrings for public APIs

Example:

```python
def my_function(arg1: str, arg2: int) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """
    One-line summary of the function.

    Longer description if needed.

    Args:
        arg1: Description of arg1
        arg2: Description of arg2

    Returns:
        Description of return value

    Raises:
        ValueError: When something goes wrong
    """
    pass
```

## Commit Guidelines

- Use clear, descriptive commit messages
- Prefix commits with type: `feat:`, `fix:`, `docs:`, `refactor:`, `test:`
- Examples:
  - `feat: add token usage tracking to cost evaluator`
  - `fix: handle missing tool_name in HTTP adapter`
  - `docs: update CONTRIBUTING with evaluator guide`

## Pull Request Process

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create a branch**: `git checkout -b feat/my-feature`
3. **Make changes** and commit with clear messages
4. **Run checks**: `make check` (format, lint, typecheck)
5. **Run tests**: `make test`
6. **Push**: `git push origin feat/my-feature`
7. **Open PR** with description of changes

### PR Checklist

- [ ] Code follows style guidelines (`make check` passes)
- [ ] Tests pass (`make test` passes)
- [ ] New code has tests
- [ ] Documentation updated (README, docstrings)
- [ ] CHANGELOG updated (if applicable)

## Questions?

- Open an [issue](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/issues)
- Start a [discussion](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/discussions)

---

**Thank you for contributing to EvalView!** 🎉
