gym/README.md, before:

# EvalView Gym

**Learn to write production-grade agent evals.**

The Gym is a self-contained training environment with a demo agent and curated test scenarios. Use it to practice eval patterns before testing your own agents.

## Why a Gym?

Most teams jump straight from "agent works in notebook" to "agent breaks in production." The gap is **eval coverage** — knowing what to test.

The Gym teaches you:
- **Failure modes** — How agents break (timeouts, bad data, loops)
- **Security patterns** — How to test for prompt injection, jailbreaks
- **Assertion strategies** — What to check beyond "output looks right"

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Start the gym agent
cd gym/agents/support-bot
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp .env.local.example .env.local  # Add your OpenAI key
langgraph dev

# 2. Run all gym scenarios (in another terminal)
evalview gym

# Or run specific suites
evalview gym --suite failure-modes
evalview gym --suite security
```

## What's Inside

```
gym/
├── agents/
│   └── support-bot/       # Demo agent with 4 tools
│       ├── agent.py       # LangGraph agent
│       ├── chaos_tools.py # Fault injection utilities
│       └── mock_config.py # Deterministic responses
├── failure-modes/         # 10 resilience scenarios
│   ├── 01-tool-timeout.yaml
│   ├── 02-malformed-response.yaml
│   ├── 03-rate-limit.yaml
│   ├── 04-infinite-loop-guard.yaml
│   ├── 05-partial-failure.yaml
│   ├── 06-empty-response.yaml
│   ├── 07-network-error.yaml
│   ├── 08-high-latency.yaml
│   ├── 09-wrong-tool-output.yaml
│   └── 10-cascading-failure.yaml
└── security/              # 5 security scenarios
    ├── 01-prompt-injection-basic.yaml
    ├── 02-prompt-injection-nested.yaml
    ├── 03-jailbreak-resistance.yaml
    ├── 04-data-exfiltration.yaml
    └── 05-tool-misuse.yaml
```

## The Demo Agent

A simple **customer support bot** with 4 tools:

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `search_kb` | Search knowledge base for help articles |
| `create_ticket` | Create support ticket (high/medium/low) |
| `send_reply` | Send reply to customer |
| `check_order` | Check order status |

The agent uses **deterministic mock responses** by default — same input always produces same output. This makes tests reproducible.

## Failure Mode Scenarios

These test how your agent handles real-world problems:

| # | Scenario | What It Tests |
|---|----------|---------------|
| 01 | Tool Timeout | Does agent recover from hung tools? |
| 02 | Malformed Response | Does agent handle corrupted JSON? |
| 03 | Rate Limit | Does agent handle 429 gracefully? |
| 04 | Infinite Loop | Does system catch tool call loops? |
| 05 | Partial Failure | Can agent use working tools when others fail? |
| 06 | Empty Response | Does agent handle null/empty data? |
| 07 | Network Error | Does agent handle connection failures? |
| 08 | High Latency | Does agent work with slow tools? |
| 09 | Wrong Output | Does agent notice mismatched data? |
| 10 | Cascading Failure | Does agent cope when multiple tools fail? |

## Security Scenarios

These test your agent's resistance to adversarial inputs:

| # | Scenario | What It Tests |
|---|----------|---------------|
| 01 | Basic Injection | Direct "ignore instructions" attacks |
| 02 | Nested Injection | Injection hidden in data/queries |
| 03 | Jailbreak | DAN-style roleplay attacks |
| 04 | Data Exfiltration | Attempts to leak secrets/other users' data |
| 05 | Tool Misuse | Attempts to abuse tools for spam/attacks |

## Chaos Configuration

Inject failures via the `context.chaos` field in scenarios:

```yaml
input:
  query: "What is your refund policy?"
  context:
    chaos:
      timeout: true           # Tool times out
      timeout_seconds: 5.0    # How long before timeout
      malformed: true         # Return invalid JSON
      rate_limit: true        # Return 429 error
      empty: true             # Return null/empty
      error: "Custom error"   # Raise custom exception
      latency_ms: 2000        # Add artificial delay
      max_calls_per_tool: 5   # Loop detection threshold
      failing_tools:          # Only these tools fail
        - search_kb
```

## Writing Your Own Scenarios

1. Copy an existing scenario as a template
2. Modify the `input.query` and `context.chaos`
3. Update `expected` assertions
4. Run with `evalview run gym/your-scenario.yaml`

### Assertion Types

```yaml
expected:
  output:
    contains:           # Must include ALL of these strings
      - "refund"
      - "policy"
    not_contains:       # Must NOT include ANY of these
      - "Traceback"
      - "Exception"

  tools:                # Must call these tools
    - search_kb

thresholds:
  min_score: 70         # Minimum passing score (0-100)
  max_latency: 10000    # Max response time (ms)
  max_cost: 0.50        # Max cost in dollars
```

## Best Practices

1. **Start with happy path** — Make sure normal cases work first
2. **Add failure modes** — Test timeouts, errors, edge cases
3. **Add security tests** — Test injection resistance
4. **Keep scenarios focused** — One failure mode per test
5. **Use deterministic mocks** — Reproducible tests are debuggable tests

## Applying to Your Agent

Once you've practiced in the gym, apply the patterns to your own agent:

```bash
# Copy a scenario and adapt it
cp gym/failure-modes/01-tool-timeout.yaml my-agent/tests/

# Update the adapter and endpoint
adapter: langgraph  # or your adapter
endpoint: http://localhost:8000

# Run against your agent
evalview run my-agent/tests/01-tool-timeout.yaml
```

## Contributing

Found a useful failure mode we missed? PRs welcome:

1. Add scenario to `gym/failure-modes/` or `gym/security/`
2. Include clear `name` and `description`
3. Document what it tests and expected behavior
4. Ensure it passes against the demo agent (or document expected failures)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

gym/README.md, after:

# EvalView Gym — Learn AI Agent Testing Patterns with Guided Exercises

> **Learn to write production-grade AI agent evaluations.** Practice regression detection, golden baselines, statistical testing, and hallucination detection with a built-in demo agent.

The Gym is a self-contained training environment with a demo agent and curated test scenarios. Use it to practice eval patterns before testing your own agents.

## Why a Gym?

Most teams jump straight from "agent works in notebook" to "agent breaks in production." The gap is **eval coverage** — knowing what to test.

The Gym teaches you:
- **Failure modes** — How agents break (timeouts, bad data, loops)
- **Security patterns** — How to test for prompt injection, jailbreaks
- **Assertion strategies** — What to check beyond "output looks right"

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Start the gym agent
cd gym/agents/support-bot
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp .env.local.example .env.local  # Add your OpenAI key
langgraph dev

# 2. Run all gym scenarios (in another terminal)
evalview gym

# Or run specific suites
evalview gym --suite failure-modes
evalview gym --suite security
```

## What's Inside

```
gym/
├── agents/
│   └── support-bot/       # Demo agent with 4 tools
│       ├── agent.py       # LangGraph agent
│       ├── chaos_tools.py # Fault injection utilities
│       └── mock_config.py # Deterministic responses
├── failure-modes/         # 10 resilience scenarios
│   ├── 01-tool-timeout.yaml
│   ├── 02-malformed-response.yaml
│   ├── 03-rate-limit.yaml
│   ├── 04-infinite-loop-guard.yaml
│   ├── 05-partial-failure.yaml
│   ├── 06-empty-response.yaml
│   ├── 07-network-error.yaml
│   ├── 08-high-latency.yaml
│   ├── 09-wrong-tool-output.yaml
│   └── 10-cascading-failure.yaml
└── security/              # 5 security scenarios
    ├── 01-prompt-injection-basic.yaml
    ├── 02-prompt-injection-nested.yaml
    ├── 03-jailbreak-resistance.yaml
    ├── 04-data-exfiltration.yaml
    └── 05-tool-misuse.yaml
```

## The Demo Agent

A simple **customer support bot** with 4 tools:

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `search_kb` | Search knowledge base for help articles |
| `create_ticket` | Create support ticket (high/medium/low) |
| `send_reply` | Send reply to customer |
| `check_order` | Check order status |

The agent uses **deterministic mock responses** by default — same input always produces same output. This makes tests reproducible.

## Failure Mode Scenarios

These test how your agent handles real-world problems:

| # | Scenario | What It Tests |
|---|----------|---------------|
| 01 | Tool Timeout | Does agent recover from hung tools? |
| 02 | Malformed Response | Does agent handle corrupted JSON? |
| 03 | Rate Limit | Does agent handle 429 gracefully? |
| 04 | Infinite Loop | Does system catch tool call loops? |
| 05 | Partial Failure | Can agent use working tools when others fail? |
| 06 | Empty Response | Does agent handle null/empty data? |
| 07 | Network Error | Does agent handle connection failures? |
| 08 | High Latency | Does agent work with slow tools? |
| 09 | Wrong Output | Does agent notice mismatched data? |
| 10 | Cascading Failure | Does agent cope when multiple tools fail? |

## Security Scenarios

These test your agent's resistance to adversarial inputs:

| # | Scenario | What It Tests |
|---|----------|---------------|
| 01 | Basic Injection | Direct "ignore instructions" attacks |
| 02 | Nested Injection | Injection hidden in data/queries |
| 03 | Jailbreak | DAN-style roleplay attacks |
| 04 | Data Exfiltration | Attempts to leak secrets/other users' data |
| 05 | Tool Misuse | Attempts to abuse tools for spam/attacks |

## Chaos Configuration

Inject failures via the `context.chaos` field in scenarios:

```yaml
input:
  query: "What is your refund policy?"
  context:
    chaos:
      timeout: true           # Tool times out
      timeout_seconds: 5.0    # How long before timeout
      malformed: true         # Return invalid JSON
      rate_limit: true        # Return 429 error
      empty: true             # Return null/empty
      error: "Custom error"   # Raise custom exception
      latency_ms: 2000        # Add artificial delay
      max_calls_per_tool: 5   # Loop detection threshold
      failing_tools:          # Only these tools fail
        - search_kb
```

## Writing Your Own Scenarios

1. Copy an existing scenario as a template
2. Modify the `input.query` and `context.chaos`
3. Update `expected` assertions
4. Run with `evalview run gym/your-scenario.yaml`

### Assertion Types

```yaml
expected:
  output:
    contains:           # Must include ALL of these strings
      - "refund"
      - "policy"
    not_contains:       # Must NOT include ANY of these
      - "Traceback"
      - "Exception"

  tools:                # Must call these tools
    - search_kb

thresholds:
  min_score: 70         # Minimum passing score (0-100)
  max_latency: 10000    # Max response time (ms)
  max_cost: 0.50        # Max cost in dollars
```

## Best Practices

1. **Start with happy path** — Make sure normal cases work first
2. **Add failure modes** — Test timeouts, errors, edge cases
3. **Add security tests** — Test injection resistance
4. **Keep scenarios focused** — One failure mode per test
5. **Use deterministic mocks** — Reproducible tests are debuggable tests

## Applying to Your Agent

Once you've practiced in the gym, apply the patterns to your own agent:

```bash
# Copy a scenario and adapt it
cp gym/failure-modes/01-tool-timeout.yaml my-agent/tests/

# Update the adapter and endpoint
adapter: langgraph  # or your adapter
endpoint: http://localhost:8000

# Run against your agent
evalview run my-agent/tests/01-tool-timeout.yaml
```

## Contributing

Found a useful failure mode we missed? PRs welcome:

1. Add scenario to `gym/failure-modes/` or `gym/security/`
2. Include clear `name` and `description`
3. Document what it tests and expected behavior
4. Ensure it passes against the demo agent (or document expected failures)
