examples/skills/test-skill/README.md, before:

# Skill Testing Starter

Copy this folder to add CI testing to your Claude Code skills.

## Quick Start

1. Copy `.github/workflows/skill-tests.yml` to your repo
2. Add your `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` to GitHub Secrets
3. Put your skills in `.claude/skills/`
4. Create test files in `tests/`

## File Structure

```
your-repo/
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── skill-tests.yml   # Copy from here
├── .claude/
│   └── skills/
│       └── your-skill/
│           └── SKILL.md
└── tests/
    └── your-skill-tests.yaml
```

## Test File Format

```yaml
name: my-skill-tests
skill: .claude/skills/your-skill/SKILL.md

tests:
  - name: test-name
    input: "Your prompt here"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["expected", "words"]
      output_not_contains: ["unwanted"]
```

## Run Locally

```bash
pip install evalview

# Validate structure
evalview skill validate .claude/skills/ -r

# Test behavior
echo "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key" > .env.local
evalview skill test tests/your-skill-tests.yaml
```

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

examples/skills/test-skill/README.md, after:

# Skill Testing Starter — CI Testing for Claude Code and OpenAI Codex SKILL.md Files

> Copy this folder to add CI testing to your Claude Code or OpenAI Codex skills. EvalView validates SKILL.md structure and tests skill behavior automatically.

## Quick Start

1. Copy `.github/workflows/skill-tests.yml` to your repo
2. Add your `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` to GitHub Secrets
3. Put your skills in `.claude/skills/`
4. Create test files in `tests/`

## File Structure

```
your-repo/
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── skill-tests.yml   # Copy from here
├── .claude/
│   └── skills/
│       └── your-skill/
│           └── SKILL.md
└── tests/
    └── your-skill-tests.yaml
```

## Test File Format

```yaml
name: my-skill-tests
skill: .claude/skills/your-skill/SKILL.md

tests:
  - name: test-name
    input: "Your prompt here"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["expected", "words"]
      output_not_contains: ["unwanted"]
```

## Run Locally

```bash
pip install evalview

# Validate structure
evalview skill validate .claude/skills/ -r

# Test behavior
echo "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key" > .env.local
evalview skill test tests/your-skill-tests.yaml
```
