examples/langgraph/README.md, before:

# LangGraph Example

Test LangGraph agents with EvalView - capture tool calls, measure latency, cost, and output quality.

## Example Output

![EvalView LangGraph Results](screenshot.png)

<details>
<summary>Text version</summary>

```
                               📊 Evaluation Summary
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━┓
┃ Test Case           ┃ Backend   ┃ Score ┃ Status    ┃    Cost ┃ Tokens ┃ Latency ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━┩
│ Conversational Test │ Langgraph │  80.0 │ ✅ PASSED │ $0.0014 │    321 │  6533ms │
│ Search Test         │ Langgraph │  85.0 │ ✅ PASSED │ $0.0024 │    720 │  7244ms │
│ Multi-Step Research │ Langgraph │  90.0 │ ✅ PASSED │ $0.0089 │  2,450 │ 12340ms │
└─────────────────────┴───────────┴───────┴───────────┴─────────┴────────┴─────────┘

Execution Flow (3 steps)
├── Step 1: tavily_search [green]✓[/green]  [2100ms | $0.0020]
│   └── → params: {"query": "AI agents 2024 trends"}
├── Step 2: tavily_search [green]✓[/green]  [1800ms | $0.0020]
│   └── → params: {"query": "LangGraph vs AutoGPT comparison"}
└── Step 3: summarize [green]✓[/green]  [3200ms | $0.0049]
    └── → params: {"content": "Based on the search results..."}
```

</details>

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
# Python 3.11+ required
pip install "langgraph-cli[inmem]" langchain-openai langchain-anthropic tavily-python
```

### 2. Set API Keys

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export TAVILY_API_KEY=tvly-...  # Get free key at tavily.com
```

### 3. Start LangGraph Server

**Option A: Use the included example agent**

```bash
cd examples/langgraph/agent
langgraph dev
```

**Option B: Use your own LangGraph agent**

```bash
cd /path/to/your/langgraph/project
langgraph dev
```

Server runs at: `http://localhost:2024`

### 4. Run Tests

```bash
# From EvalView root
evalview run --pattern examples/langgraph/
```

## Test Cases

| Test | What it checks |
|------|---------------|
| `conversational.yaml` | Basic Q&A without tools |
| `search.yaml` | Web search tool usage |
| `multi-step.yaml` | Multi-tool research workflow |

## Configuration

EvalView auto-detects LangGraph Cloud API on port 2024. To configure manually:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: langgraph
endpoint: http://localhost:2024
assistant_id: agent  # Your graph name from langgraph.json
timeout: 90
```

## Writing Test Cases

```yaml
name: "My Test"
adapter: langgraph
endpoint: http://localhost:2024

input:
  query: "What are the latest AI trends?"
  context:
    assistant_id: agent  # Optional: override default assistant

expected:
  tools:
    - tavily_search  # Expected tools to be called
  output:
    contains:
      - "AI"
      - "trends"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_cost: 0.10
  max_latency: 30000
```

## Troubleshooting

**"Python 3.11+ required"**
```bash
# Use conda or pyenv
conda create -n langgraph python=3.12
conda activate langgraph
```

**"TAVILY_API_KEY not found"**
- Get a free key at [tavily.com](https://tavily.com)
- Or modify the agent to remove the search tool

**"Connection refused on port 2024"**
- Make sure `langgraph dev` is running
- Check for errors in the server terminal

## Links

- [LangGraph Docs](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/)
- [LangGraph GitHub](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph)
- [EvalView Docs](../../docs/)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

examples/langgraph/README.md, after:

# LangGraph Example — Testing LangGraph Agents with EvalView

> Test LangGraph agents with EvalView — capture tool calls, verify execution sequences, measure latency and cost, detect regressions with golden baselines, and run in CI.

## Example Output

![EvalView LangGraph Results](screenshot.png)

<details>
<summary>Text version</summary>

```
                               📊 Evaluation Summary
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━┓
┃ Test Case           ┃ Backend   ┃ Score ┃ Status    ┃    Cost ┃ Tokens ┃ Latency ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━┩
│ Conversational Test │ Langgraph │  80.0 │ ✅ PASSED │ $0.0014 │    321 │  6533ms │
│ Search Test         │ Langgraph │  85.0 │ ✅ PASSED │ $0.0024 │    720 │  7244ms │
│ Multi-Step Research │ Langgraph │  90.0 │ ✅ PASSED │ $0.0089 │  2,450 │ 12340ms │
└─────────────────────┴───────────┴───────┴───────────┴─────────┴────────┴─────────┘

Execution Flow (3 steps)
├── Step 1: tavily_search [green]✓[/green]  [2100ms | $0.0020]
│   └── → params: {"query": "AI agents 2024 trends"}
├── Step 2: tavily_search [green]✓[/green]  [1800ms | $0.0020]
│   └── → params: {"query": "LangGraph vs AutoGPT comparison"}
└── Step 3: summarize [green]✓[/green]  [3200ms | $0.0049]
    └── → params: {"content": "Based on the search results..."}
```

</details>

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
# Python 3.11+ required
pip install "langgraph-cli[inmem]" langchain-openai langchain-anthropic tavily-python
```

### 2. Set API Keys

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export TAVILY_API_KEY=tvly-...  # Get free key at tavily.com
```

### 3. Start LangGraph Server

**Option A: Use the included example agent**

```bash
cd examples/langgraph/agent
langgraph dev
```

**Option B: Use your own LangGraph agent**

```bash
cd /path/to/your/langgraph/project
langgraph dev
```

Server runs at: `http://localhost:2024`

### 4. Run Tests

```bash
# From EvalView root
evalview run --pattern examples/langgraph/
```

## Test Cases

| Test | What it checks |
|------|---------------|
| `conversational.yaml` | Basic Q&A without tools |
| `search.yaml` | Web search tool usage |
| `multi-step.yaml` | Multi-tool research workflow |

## Configuration

EvalView auto-detects LangGraph Cloud API on port 2024. To configure manually:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: langgraph
endpoint: http://localhost:2024
assistant_id: agent  # Your graph name from langgraph.json
timeout: 90
```

## Writing Test Cases

```yaml
name: "My Test"
adapter: langgraph
endpoint: http://localhost:2024

input:
  query: "What are the latest AI trends?"
  context:
    assistant_id: agent  # Optional: override default assistant

expected:
  tools:
    - tavily_search  # Expected tools to be called
  output:
    contains:
      - "AI"
      - "trends"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_cost: 0.10
  max_latency: 30000
```

## Troubleshooting

**"Python 3.11+ required"**
```bash
# Use conda or pyenv
conda create -n langgraph python=3.12
conda activate langgraph
```

**"TAVILY_API_KEY not found"**
- Get a free key at [tavily.com](https://tavily.com)
- Or modify the agent to remove the search tool

**"Connection refused on port 2024"**
- Make sure `langgraph dev` is running
- Check for errors in the server terminal

## Links

- [LangGraph Docs](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/)
- [LangGraph GitHub](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph)
- [EvalView Docs](../../docs/)
