guides/pytest-for-ai-agents-langgraph-ci.md, before:

# Testing LangGraph Agents in CI: A Practical Guide

I spent three months shipping a LangGraph agent to production without any tests. Every deploy was a coin flip. Sometimes the agent would start calling the wrong tools. Sometimes it would hallucinate prices. Once it told a customer their order was "probably fine" instead of looking it up.

The problem? Traditional testing doesn't work for agents. You can't `assert response == "exact string"` when the output is non-deterministic. And mocking the LLM defeats the purpose—you want to catch the weird stuff the model actually does.

This is how I test LangGraph agents now.

---

## The core idea

Instead of testing outputs, test behaviors:

- Did the agent call the right tools?
- Did it call them in a sensible order?
- Is the response roughly correct (not exact match)?
- Did it stay under budget?
- Did it respond fast enough?

EvalView handles this with YAML test cases and an LLM-as-judge for output quality.

---

## Setup

```bash
pip install evalview
export OPENAI_API_KEY='sk-...'
```

If you have a LangGraph agent running locally:

```bash
langgraph dev  # in one terminal

evalview connect  # in another—auto-detects the agent
```

Or configure manually in `evalview.yaml`:

```yaml
adapter:
  type: langgraph
  endpoint: http://localhost:8123
```

---

## Writing test cases

Test cases are YAML files. Here's a minimal one:

```yaml
# tests/cases/basic.yaml
name: "capital city lookup"

input:
  query: "What's the capital of France?"

expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "Paris"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
```

Run it:

```bash
evalview run
```

Output:

```
✅ capital city lookup - PASSED (score: 82)
   Cost: $0.003 | Latency: 1.8s
```

The score comes from an LLM judge that evaluates whether the response adequately answers the query. It's not checking for exact matches—it's checking if the answer is reasonable.

---

## Testing tool calls

This is where it gets useful. Most agent bugs are tool bugs—calling the wrong tool, missing a required tool, or calling tools in a broken order.

```yaml
# tests/cases/order-lookup.yaml
name: "order status check"

input:
  query: "What's the status of order #12345?"

expected:
  tools:
    - lookup_order
  output:
    contains:
      - "12345"

thresholds:
  min_score: 75
  max_cost: 0.10
  max_latency: 5000
```

If the agent answers without calling `lookup_order`, this test fails. That's the behavior you want to catch—an agent that guesses instead of looking things up.

For strict ordering:

```yaml
expected:
  tools_sequence:
    - lookup_order
    - check_inventory
    - calculate_shipping
```

Now the test fails if tools are called out of order.

---

## Handling non-determinism

Agents don't give the same answer twice. A test that passes once might fail the next run. A few ways to handle this:

**1. Test behaviors, not exact outputs**

Don't do this:
```yaml
expected:
  output:
    equals: "The capital of France is Paris."
```

Do this:
```yaml
expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "Paris"
```

**2. Set reasonable thresholds**

A `min_score` of 70-80 is usually right. Going higher leads to flaky tests.

**3. Use retries for flaky tests**

```bash
evalview run --max-retries 2
```

If a test fails, it'll retry twice before marking it as failed.

---

## Generating test variations

Writing tests by hand is slow. I usually write 3-5 seed tests, then expand them:

```bash
evalview expand tests/cases/order-lookup.yaml --count 50
```

This generates 50 variations:
- Different order IDs
- Different phrasings ("where's my order", "order status", "track order #X")
- Edge cases (invalid IDs, missing IDs)

You can focus the expansion:

```bash
evalview expand tests/cases/order-lookup.yaml --count 20 \
  --focus "angry customers, typos, multiple orders"
```

---

## CI setup (GitHub Actions)

```yaml
# .github/workflows/agent-tests.yml
name: Agent Tests

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: actions/setup-python@v5
        with:
          python-version: "3.11"

      - run: pip install evalview

      - name: Start agent
        run: |
          pip install -r requirements.txt
          langgraph dev &
          sleep 10
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}

      - name: Run tests
        run: evalview run
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
```

EvalView exits with code 1 on failures, so GitHub will block the PR.

---

## Catching regressions

The `--summary` flag compares against the last run:

```bash
evalview run --summary
```

```
━━━ Summary ━━━
Tests: 23 passed, 1 failed

Failures:
  ✗ order-lookup: invalid ID    tool accuracy 60% (was 100%)

Deltas vs last run:
  Cost:    +$0.04 ↑
  Latency: +340ms ↑
```

I run this on every PR. If costs spike or latency degrades, I want to know before merging.

---

## A real example

Here's a test from a support agent I work on:

```yaml
name: "refund request - eligible order"

input:
  query: "I want to refund order #99881"
  context:
    user_id: "user_abc"
    order_id: "99881"

expected:
  tools_sequence:
    - get_order
    - check_refund_eligibility
    - process_refund
  output:
    contains:
      - "refund"
      - "processed"

thresholds:
  min_score: 80
  max_cost: 0.15
  max_latency: 8000
```

This catches:
- Agent skipping the eligibility check (bad)
- Agent not actually processing the refund (really bad)
- Agent taking too long (annoying)
- Agent costing too much per request (expensive at scale)

---

## What this doesn't catch

No testing approach catches everything. This won't help with:

- **Subtle hallucinations**: If the agent makes up a plausible-sounding order status, the LLM judge might not catch it. You need grounded evaluation for that (coming soon to EvalView).
- **Long-tail failures**: Tests cover known scenarios. Production will always find new ones.
- **Model updates**: When OpenAI updates GPT-4, your agent might behave differently. Re-run your full test suite after model changes.

But it catches the obvious stuff—and in my experience, the obvious stuff causes 80% of production incidents.

---

## Getting started

```bash
pip install evalview
evalview quickstart  # creates a demo agent + test case
```

Then adapt the generated test case for your agent.

Full docs: [github.com/hidai25/eval-view](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

guides/pytest-for-ai-agents-langgraph-ci.md, after:

# Testing LangGraph Agents in CI: A Practical Guide Using EvalView

> **TL;DR:** EvalView provides pytest-style testing for LangGraph agents. Write YAML test cases that verify tool calls, output quality, cost, and latency. Run them in CI with `evalview run`. Catch regressions before they reach production.

I spent three months shipping a LangGraph agent to production without any tests. Every deploy was a coin flip. Sometimes the agent would start calling the wrong tools. Sometimes it would hallucinate prices. Once it told a customer their order was "probably fine" instead of looking it up.

The problem? Traditional testing doesn't work for agents. You can't `assert response == "exact string"` when the output is non-deterministic. And mocking the LLM defeats the purpose — you want to catch the weird stuff the model actually does.

This is how I test LangGraph agents now, using [EvalView](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view).

---

## The core idea

Instead of testing outputs, test behaviors:

- Did the agent call the right tools?
- Did it call them in a sensible order?
- Is the response roughly correct (not exact match)?
- Did it stay under budget?
- Did it respond fast enough?

EvalView handles this with YAML test cases and an LLM-as-judge for output quality.

---

## Setup

```bash
pip install evalview
export OPENAI_API_KEY='sk-...'
```

If you have a LangGraph agent running locally:

```bash
langgraph dev  # in one terminal

evalview connect  # in another—auto-detects the agent
```

Or configure manually in `evalview.yaml`:

```yaml
adapter:
  type: langgraph
  endpoint: http://localhost:8123
```

---

## Writing test cases

Test cases are YAML files. Here's a minimal one:

```yaml
# tests/cases/basic.yaml
name: "capital city lookup"

input:
  query: "What's the capital of France?"

expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "Paris"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
```

Run it:

```bash
evalview run
```

Output:

```
✅ capital city lookup - PASSED (score: 82)
   Cost: $0.003 | Latency: 1.8s
```

The score comes from an LLM judge that evaluates whether the response adequately answers the query. It's not checking for exact matches—it's checking if the answer is reasonable.

---

## Testing tool calls

This is where it gets useful. Most agent bugs are tool bugs—calling the wrong tool, missing a required tool, or calling tools in a broken order.

```yaml
# tests/cases/order-lookup.yaml
name: "order status check"

input:
  query: "What's the status of order #12345?"

expected:
  tools:
    - lookup_order
  output:
    contains:
      - "12345"

thresholds:
  min_score: 75
  max_cost: 0.10
  max_latency: 5000
```

If the agent answers without calling `lookup_order`, this test fails. That's the behavior you want to catch—an agent that guesses instead of looking things up.

For strict ordering:

```yaml
expected:
  tools_sequence:
    - lookup_order
    - check_inventory
    - calculate_shipping
```

Now the test fails if tools are called out of order.

---

## Handling non-determinism

Agents don't give the same answer twice. A test that passes once might fail the next run. A few ways to handle this:

**1. Test behaviors, not exact outputs**

Don't do this:
```yaml
expected:
  output:
    equals: "The capital of France is Paris."
```

Do this:
```yaml
expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "Paris"
```

**2. Set reasonable thresholds**

A `min_score` of 70-80 is usually right. Going higher leads to flaky tests.

**3. Use retries for flaky tests**

```bash
evalview run --max-retries 2
```

If a test fails, it'll retry twice before marking it as failed.

---

## Generating test variations

Writing tests by hand is slow. I usually write 3-5 seed tests, then expand them:

```bash
evalview expand tests/cases/order-lookup.yaml --count 50
```

This generates 50 variations:
- Different order IDs
- Different phrasings ("where's my order", "order status", "track order #X")
- Edge cases (invalid IDs, missing IDs)

You can focus the expansion:

```bash
evalview expand tests/cases/order-lookup.yaml --count 20 \
  --focus "angry customers, typos, multiple orders"
```

---

## CI setup (GitHub Actions)

```yaml
# .github/workflows/agent-tests.yml
name: Agent Tests

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: actions/setup-python@v5
        with:
          python-version: "3.11"

      - run: pip install evalview

      - name: Start agent
        run: |
          pip install -r requirements.txt
          langgraph dev &
          sleep 10
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}

      - name: Run tests
        run: evalview run
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
```

EvalView exits with code 1 on failures, so GitHub will block the PR.

---

## Catching regressions

The `--summary` flag compares against the last run:

```bash
evalview run --summary
```

```
━━━ Summary ━━━
Tests: 23 passed, 1 failed

Failures:
  ✗ order-lookup: invalid ID    tool accuracy 60% (was 100%)

Deltas vs last run:
  Cost:    +$0.04 ↑
  Latency: +340ms ↑
```

I run this on every PR. If costs spike or latency degrades, I want to know before merging.

---

## A real example

Here's a test from a support agent I work on:

```yaml
name: "refund request - eligible order"

input:
  query: "I want to refund order #99881"
  context:
    user_id: "user_abc"
    order_id: "99881"

expected:
  tools_sequence:
    - get_order
    - check_refund_eligibility
    - process_refund
  output:
    contains:
      - "refund"
      - "processed"

thresholds:
  min_score: 80
  max_cost: 0.15
  max_latency: 8000
```

This catches:
- Agent skipping the eligibility check (bad)
- Agent not actually processing the refund (really bad)
- Agent taking too long (annoying)
- Agent costing too much per request (expensive at scale)

---

## What this doesn't catch

No testing approach catches everything. This won't help with:

- **Subtle hallucinations**: If the agent makes up a plausible-sounding order status, the LLM judge might not catch it. You need grounded evaluation for that (coming soon to EvalView).
- **Long-tail failures**: Tests cover known scenarios. Production will always find new ones.
- **Model updates**: When OpenAI updates GPT-4, your agent might behave differently. Re-run your full test suite after model changes.

But it catches the obvious stuff—and in my experience, the obvious stuff causes 80% of production incidents.

---

## Getting started

```bash
pip install evalview
evalview quickstart  # creates a demo agent + test case
```

Then adapt the generated test case for your agent.

Full docs: [github.com/hidai25/eval-view](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view)
