examples/anthropic/README.md, before:

# Anthropic Examples

Test Anthropic Claude models and agents with EvalView.

## Two Ways to Test

| Example | Command | Use Case |
|---------|---------|----------|
| **Direct API** | `evalview run examples/anthropic` | Test Claude API with tool use |
| **Claude Agent SDK** | `evalview run examples/anthropic/claude-agent-sdk` | Test agents built with Claude Agent SDK |

---

## Option 1: Direct Anthropic API

Test Claude models directly using the Anthropic API with tool definitions.

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Setup (first time only)
cd /path/to/EvalView
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
pip install anthropic

# 2. Set your API key
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-api-key

# 3. Run the test
evalview run examples/anthropic
```

### What It Tests

- Claude's ability to use tools (get_weather, convert_temperature)
- Response quality and accuracy
- Hallucination detection
- Cost and latency tracking

---

## Option 2: Claude Agent SDK

Test agents built with the [Claude Agent SDK](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-agent-sdk-python) - the same infrastructure that powers Claude Code.

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Setup
cd /path/to/EvalView
source venv/bin/activate
pip install claude-agent-sdk flask

# 2. Start the agent server (Terminal 1)
cd examples/anthropic/claude-agent-sdk
python server.py

# 3. Run tests (Terminal 2)
cd /path/to/EvalView
evalview run examples/anthropic/claude-agent-sdk
```

### Files

```
claude-agent-sdk/
├── agent.py          # Your agent with custom tools
├── server.py         # HTTP wrapper for EvalView
├── test-case.yaml    # Test definitions
└── .evalview/
    └── config.yaml   # EvalView config
```

### Custom Tools Example

```python
from claude_agent_sdk import custom_tool

@custom_tool
def get_weather(city: str) -> str:
    """Get weather for a city."""
    return f"Weather in {city}: 72°F, Sunny"

@custom_tool
def calculate(expression: str) -> str:
    """Evaluate a math expression."""
    return f"{expression} = {eval(expression)}"
```

---

## Environment Variables

```bash
# Required
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-api-key

# Optional: Choose LLM-as-judge provider
export EVAL_PROVIDER=anthropic  # or openai, gemini, grok
```

## Supported Models

| Model | API ID | Input/MTok | Output/MTok |
|-------|--------|------------|-------------|
| **Sonnet 4.5** | `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929` | $3 | $15 |
| **Haiku 4.5** | `claude-haiku-4-5-20251001` | $1 | $5 |
| **Opus 4.5** | `claude-opus-4-5-20251101` | $5 | $25 |

## Links

- [Anthropic Docs](https://docs.anthropic.com/)
- [Tool Use Guide](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/build-with-claude/tool-use)
- [Claude Agent SDK](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-agent-sdk-python)
- [Claude Agent SDK Demos](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-agent-sdk-demos)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

examples/anthropic/README.md, after:

# Anthropic Examples — Testing Claude Models and Agents with EvalView

> Test Anthropic Claude models and Claude-based agents with EvalView — supports direct API calls, Claude Agent SDK, and tool-equipped Claude agents.

## Two Ways to Test

| Example | Command | Use Case |
|---------|---------|----------|
| **Direct API** | `evalview run examples/anthropic` | Test Claude API with tool use |
| **Claude Agent SDK** | `evalview run examples/anthropic/claude-agent-sdk` | Test agents built with Claude Agent SDK |

---

## Option 1: Direct Anthropic API

Test Claude models directly using the Anthropic API with tool definitions.

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Setup (first time only)
cd /path/to/EvalView
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
pip install anthropic

# 2. Set your API key
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-api-key

# 3. Run the test
evalview run examples/anthropic
```

### What It Tests

- Claude's ability to use tools (get_weather, convert_temperature)
- Response quality and accuracy
- Hallucination detection
- Cost and latency tracking

---

## Option 2: Claude Agent SDK

Test agents built with the [Claude Agent SDK](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-agent-sdk-python) - the same infrastructure that powers Claude Code.

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Setup
cd /path/to/EvalView
source venv/bin/activate
pip install claude-agent-sdk flask

# 2. Start the agent server (Terminal 1)
cd examples/anthropic/claude-agent-sdk
python server.py

# 3. Run tests (Terminal 2)
cd /path/to/EvalView
evalview run examples/anthropic/claude-agent-sdk
```

### Files

```
claude-agent-sdk/
├── agent.py          # Your agent with custom tools
├── server.py         # HTTP wrapper for EvalView
├── test-case.yaml    # Test definitions
└── .evalview/
    └── config.yaml   # EvalView config
```

### Custom Tools Example

```python
from claude_agent_sdk import custom_tool

@custom_tool
def get_weather(city: str) -> str:
    """Get weather for a city."""
    return f"Weather in {city}: 72°F, Sunny"

@custom_tool
def calculate(expression: str) -> str:
    """Evaluate a math expression."""
    return f"{expression} = {eval(expression)}"
```

---

## Environment Variables

```bash
# Required
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-api-key

# Optional: Choose LLM-as-judge provider
export EVAL_PROVIDER=anthropic  # or openai, gemini, grok
```

## Supported Models

| Model | API ID | Input/MTok | Output/MTok |
|-------|--------|------------|-------------|
| **Sonnet 4.5** | `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929` | $3 | $15 |
| **Haiku 4.5** | `claude-haiku-4-5-20251001` | $1 | $5 |
| **Opus 4.5** | `claude-opus-4-5-20251101` | $5 | $25 |

## Links

- [Anthropic Docs](https://docs.anthropic.com/)
- [Tool Use Guide](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/build-with-claude/tool-use)
- [Claude Agent SDK](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-agent-sdk-python)
- [Claude Agent SDK Demos](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-agent-sdk-demos)
