docs/ADAPTERS.md, before:

# EvalView Adapters

Adapters connect EvalView to your AI agent's API. EvalView includes adapters for common patterns and makes it easy to build custom ones.

## Built-in Adapters

### HTTP Adapter

For standard REST APIs that return a complete JSON response.

**Use when:**
- Your agent returns a full response in one request
- No streaming involved
- Response contains all steps/tools in a single payload

**Configuration:**
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: http
endpoint: http://localhost:3000/api/agent
timeout: 30.0
headers:
  Authorization: Bearer your-api-key
  Content-Type: application/json
```

**Expected Response Format:**
```json
{
  "session_id": "session-123",
  "output": "Final agent response",
  "steps": [
    {
      "id": "step-1",
      "name": "Tool name",
      "tool": "tool_identifier",
      "parameters": {"arg": "value"},
      "output": {"result": "data"},
      "success": true,
      "latency": 234,
      "cost": 0.001,
      "tokens": 150
    }
  ],
  "cost": 0.025,
  "tokens": 1250
}
```

### HuggingFace Adapter

For Gradio-based agents hosted on HuggingFace Spaces.

**Use when:**
- Your agent is hosted on HuggingFace Spaces
- Your agent uses Gradio for the interface
- You want zero-config connection to HF Spaces

**Configuration:**
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: huggingface  # or 'hf' or 'gradio'

# Supports multiple URL formats:
endpoint: username/my-space
# OR: https://huggingface.co/spaces/username/my-space
# OR: https://username-my-space.hf.space

timeout: 120  # Longer timeout for AI inference
```

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
# HuggingFace token (optional for public Spaces)
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token_here"
```

**Features:**
- Auto-detects Gradio API endpoints
- Handles Space URL normalization
- Supports sleeping Space wake-up
- Extracts tool calls if present in response

**Example:**
```bash
# Connect to any HuggingFace Space
evalview connect --adapter hf --endpoint HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat
```

See [QUICKSTART_HUGGINGFACE.md](QUICKSTART_HUGGINGFACE.md) for full guide.

---

### Streaming Adapter

For JSONL (JSON Lines) streaming APIs.

**Use when:**
- Your agent streams responses line-by-line
- Each line is a JSON object with event information
- Real-time updates during execution

**Configuration:**
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: streaming  # or 'jsonl' or 'tapescope'
endpoint: http://localhost:3000/api/chat
timeout: 60.0
headers:
  Content-Type: application/json
```

**Expected Event Format:**

The streaming adapter recognizes these event types:

```jsonl
{"type": "tool_call", "data": {"name": "search_web", "args": {"query": "..."}}}
{"type": "tool_result", "data": {"result": {"status": "success", "data": [...]}}}
{"type": "token", "data": {"token": "Hello"}}
{"type": "token", "data": {"token": " world"}}
{"type": "final_message", "data": {"text": "Complete response"}}
{"type": "error", "error": "Error message"}
```

**Supported Event Types:**

| Type | Purpose | Action |
|------|---------|--------|
| `tool_call` | Tool is being executed | Creates a new step trace |
| `tool_result` | Tool finished | Updates last step with result |
| `final_message` | Complete response | Sets final output |
| `token` | Streaming token (SSE) | Appends to output |
| `error` | Error occurred | Captures error message |
| `start`, `status`, `thinking` | Informational | Logged only |

**Fallback Behavior:**

If no recognized events are found, the adapter:
1. Treats each line as plain text
2. Accumulates all text as final output
3. Still captures timing and basic metrics

## Custom Adapters

Build a custom adapter for your specific agent implementation.

### Basic Template

```python
# evalview/adapters/my_adapter.py
from datetime import datetime
from typing import Any, Optional, Dict
from evalview.adapters.base import AgentAdapter
from evalview.core.types import (
    ExecutionTrace,
    StepTrace,
    StepMetrics,
    ExecutionMetrics,
)

class MyCustomAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for my custom agent."""

    def __init__(
        self,
        endpoint: str,
        headers: Optional[Dict[str, str]] = None,
        timeout: float = 30.0,
    ):
        self.endpoint = endpoint
        self.headers = headers or {}
        self.timeout = timeout

    @property
    def name(self) -> str:
        return "my-adapter"

    async def execute(
        self,
        query: str,
        context: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None
    ) -> ExecutionTrace:
        """Execute agent and capture trace."""
        start_time = datetime.now()

        # TODO: Call your agent API
        response = await self._call_agent(query, context)

        # TODO: Parse response and extract steps
        steps = self._parse_steps(response)

        # TODO: Get final output
        final_output = response.get("output", "")

        end_time = datetime.now()
        total_latency = (end_time - start_time).total_seconds() * 1000

        return ExecutionTrace(
            session_id=response.get("session_id", "custom-session"),
            start_time=start_time,
            end_time=end_time,
            steps=steps,
            final_output=final_output,
            metrics=ExecutionMetrics(
                total_cost=sum(s.metrics.cost for s in steps),
                total_latency=total_latency,
                total_tokens=sum(s.metrics.tokens or 0 for s in steps),
            ),
        )

    async def _call_agent(self, query: str, context: dict) -> dict:
        """Make API call to your agent."""
        import httpx

        async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=self.timeout) as client:
            response = await client.post(
                self.endpoint,
                json={"query": query, **context},
                headers=self.headers,
            )
            response.raise_for_status()
            return response.json()

    def _parse_steps(self, response: dict) -> list:
        """Convert your response format to StepTrace objects."""
        steps = []

        for step_data in response.get("steps", []):
            step = StepTrace(
                step_id=step_data["id"],
                step_name=step_data["name"],
                tool_name=step_data.get("tool"),
                parameters=step_data.get("parameters", {}),
                output=step_data.get("output"),
                success=step_data.get("success", True),
                error=step_data.get("error"),
                metrics=StepMetrics(
                    latency=step_data.get("latency", 0.0),
                    cost=step_data.get("cost", 0.0),
                    tokens=step_data.get("tokens"),
                ),
            )
            steps.append(step)

        return steps

    async def health_check(self) -> bool:
        """Check if agent endpoint is reachable."""
        try:
            import httpx
            async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=5.0) as client:
                response = await client.get(self.endpoint)
                return response.status_code == 200
        except Exception:
            return False
```

### Register Your Adapter

```python
# evalview/cli.py

from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyCustomAdapter

# In _run_async function:
adapter_type = config.get("adapter", "http")
if adapter_type == "my-adapter":
    adapter = MyCustomAdapter(
        endpoint=config["endpoint"],
        headers=config.get("headers", {}),
        timeout=config.get("timeout", 30.0),
    )
```

## Adapter Examples

### LangServe Streaming

```python
class LangServeAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for LangServe streaming endpoints."""

    async def execute(self, query: str, context=None) -> ExecutionTrace:
        start_time = datetime.now()
        steps = []
        final_output = ""

        async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=self.timeout) as client:
            async with client.stream(
                "POST",
                f"{self.endpoint}/stream",
                json={"input": query},
            ) as response:
                async for line in response.aiter_lines():
                    if line.startswith("data: "):
                        data = json.loads(line[6:])
                        if "output" in data:
                            final_output = data["output"]

        end_time = datetime.now()
        # ... build ExecutionTrace
```

### OpenAI Assistants API

```python
class OpenAIAssistantsAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for OpenAI Assistants API."""

    async def execute(self, query: str, context=None) -> ExecutionTrace:
        import openai

        client = openai.AsyncOpenAI()
        start_time = datetime.now()

        # Create thread and run
        thread = await client.beta.threads.create()
        await client.beta.threads.messages.create(
            thread_id=thread.id,
            role="user",
            content=query
        )

        run = await client.beta.threads.runs.create(
            thread_id=thread.id,
            assistant_id=context.get("assistant_id")
        )

        # Poll for completion
        while run.status in ["queued", "in_progress"]:
            await asyncio.sleep(0.5)
            run = await client.beta.threads.runs.retrieve(
                thread_id=thread.id,
                run_id=run.id
            )

        # Extract steps
        steps = []
        for step in run.steps:
            if step.type == "tool_calls":
                for tool_call in step.step_details.tool_calls:
                    steps.append(StepTrace(
                        step_id=tool_call.id,
                        tool_name=tool_call.function.name,
                        parameters=json.loads(tool_call.function.arguments),
                        # ... more fields
                    ))

        # Get final message
        messages = await client.beta.threads.messages.list(thread_id=thread.id)
        final_output = messages.data[0].content[0].text.value

        end_time = datetime.now()
        # ... build ExecutionTrace
```

### CrewAI

```python
class CrewAIAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for CrewAI agents."""

    async def execute(self, query: str, context=None) -> ExecutionTrace:
        # CrewAI typically runs synchronously, wrap in thread
        from concurrent.futures import ThreadPoolExecutor
        import json

        def run_crew():
            # Import your crew
            from my_crew import MyCrew

            crew = MyCrew()
            result = crew.kickoff(inputs={"query": query})
            return result

        start_time = datetime.now()

        with ThreadPoolExecutor() as executor:
            future = executor.submit(run_crew)
            result = future.result(timeout=self.timeout)

        end_time = datetime.now()

        # Parse CrewAI result
        # ... convert to ExecutionTrace
```

## Testing Your Adapter

```python
# test_my_adapter.py
import asyncio
from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyCustomAdapter

async def test_adapter():
    adapter = MyCustomAdapter(
        endpoint="http://localhost:3000/api/agent"
    )

    # Test execution
    trace = await adapter.execute("Test query")

    print(f"Session: {trace.session_id}")
    print(f"Steps: {len(trace.steps)}")
    print(f"Output: {trace.final_output}")
    print(f"Latency: {trace.metrics.total_latency}ms")

asyncio.run(test_adapter())
```

## Best Practices

1. **Always capture timing** - Record start/end times accurately
2. **Handle errors gracefully** - Catch exceptions and log them
3. **Set reasonable timeouts** - Don't wait forever for responses
4. **Validate responses** - Check for required fields before parsing
5. **Log verbosely** - Use logger for debugging (respects DEBUG env var)
6. **Test with real data** - Use actual agent responses during development
7. **Document event formats** - Explain what your adapter expects

## Need Help?

- See `evalview/adapters/http_adapter.py` for simple example
- See `evalview/adapters/tapescope_adapter.py` for streaming example
- Open an issue on GitHub with your use case
- Check [DEBUGGING.md](../DEBUGGING.md) for troubleshooting

## Contributing Adapters

Have an adapter for a popular framework? We'd love to include it!

1. Create adapter in `evalview/adapters/your_adapter.py`
2. Add tests in `tests/adapters/test_your_adapter.py`
3. Document in this file
4. Submit PR with examples

Popular frameworks we'd love adapters for:
- AutoGPT
- BabyAGI
- SuperAGI
- LangGraph
- Haystack

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/ADAPTERS.md, after:

# EvalView Adapters — Connect Any AI Agent to EvalView

> Adapters are the bridge between EvalView and your AI agent. EvalView includes dedicated adapters for LangGraph, CrewAI, OpenAI Assistants, Anthropic Claude, HuggingFace, Ollama, MCP servers, and generic HTTP/streaming APIs. You can also build custom adapters for proprietary frameworks.

Adapters connect EvalView to your AI agent's API. EvalView includes adapters for common patterns and makes it easy to build custom ones.

## Built-in Adapters

### HTTP Adapter

For standard REST APIs that return a complete JSON response.

**Use when:**
- Your agent returns a full response in one request
- No streaming involved
- Response contains all steps/tools in a single payload

**Configuration:**
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: http
endpoint: http://localhost:3000/api/agent
timeout: 30.0
headers:
  Authorization: Bearer your-api-key
  Content-Type: application/json
```

**Expected Response Format:**
```json
{
  "session_id": "session-123",
  "output": "Final agent response",
  "steps": [
    {
      "id": "step-1",
      "name": "Tool name",
      "tool": "tool_identifier",
      "parameters": {"arg": "value"},
      "output": {"result": "data"},
      "success": true,
      "latency": 234,
      "cost": 0.001,
      "tokens": 150
    }
  ],
  "cost": 0.025,
  "tokens": 1250
}
```

### HuggingFace Adapter

For Gradio-based agents hosted on HuggingFace Spaces.

**Use when:**
- Your agent is hosted on HuggingFace Spaces
- Your agent uses Gradio for the interface
- You want zero-config connection to HF Spaces

**Configuration:**
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: huggingface  # or 'hf' or 'gradio'

# Supports multiple URL formats:
endpoint: username/my-space
# OR: https://huggingface.co/spaces/username/my-space
# OR: https://username-my-space.hf.space

timeout: 120  # Longer timeout for AI inference
```

**Environment Variables:**
```bash
# HuggingFace token (optional for public Spaces)
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token_here"
```

**Features:**
- Auto-detects Gradio API endpoints
- Handles Space URL normalization
- Supports sleeping Space wake-up
- Extracts tool calls if present in response

**Example:**
```bash
# Connect to any HuggingFace Space
evalview connect --adapter hf --endpoint HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat
```

See [QUICKSTART_HUGGINGFACE.md](QUICKSTART_HUGGINGFACE.md) for full guide.

---

### Streaming Adapter

For JSONL (JSON Lines) streaming APIs.

**Use when:**
- Your agent streams responses line-by-line
- Each line is a JSON object with event information
- Real-time updates during execution

**Configuration:**
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: streaming  # or 'jsonl' or 'tapescope'
endpoint: http://localhost:3000/api/chat
timeout: 60.0
headers:
  Content-Type: application/json
```

**Expected Event Format:**

The streaming adapter recognizes these event types:

```jsonl
{"type": "tool_call", "data": {"name": "search_web", "args": {"query": "..."}}}
{"type": "tool_result", "data": {"result": {"status": "success", "data": [...]}}}
{"type": "token", "data": {"token": "Hello"}}
{"type": "token", "data": {"token": " world"}}
{"type": "final_message", "data": {"text": "Complete response"}}
{"type": "error", "error": "Error message"}
```

**Supported Event Types:**

| Type | Purpose | Action |
|------|---------|--------|
| `tool_call` | Tool is being executed | Creates a new step trace |
| `tool_result` | Tool finished | Updates last step with result |
| `final_message` | Complete response | Sets final output |
| `token` | Streaming token (SSE) | Appends to output |
| `error` | Error occurred | Captures error message |
| `start`, `status`, `thinking` | Informational | Logged only |

**Fallback Behavior:**

If no recognized events are found, the adapter:
1. Treats each line as plain text
2. Accumulates all text as final output
3. Still captures timing and basic metrics

## Custom Adapters

Build a custom adapter for your specific agent implementation.

### Basic Template

```python
# evalview/adapters/my_adapter.py
from datetime import datetime
from typing import Any, Optional, Dict
from evalview.adapters.base import AgentAdapter
from evalview.core.types import (
    ExecutionTrace,
    StepTrace,
    StepMetrics,
    ExecutionMetrics,
)

class MyCustomAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for my custom agent."""

    def __init__(
        self,
        endpoint: str,
        headers: Optional[Dict[str, str]] = None,
        timeout: float = 30.0,
    ):
        self.endpoint = endpoint
        self.headers = headers or {}
        self.timeout = timeout

    @property
    def name(self) -> str:
        return "my-adapter"

    async def execute(
        self,
        query: str,
        context: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None
    ) -> ExecutionTrace:
        """Execute agent and capture trace."""
        start_time = datetime.now()

        # TODO: Call your agent API
        response = await self._call_agent(query, context)

        # TODO: Parse response and extract steps
        steps = self._parse_steps(response)

        # TODO: Get final output
        final_output = response.get("output", "")

        end_time = datetime.now()
        total_latency = (end_time - start_time).total_seconds() * 1000

        return ExecutionTrace(
            session_id=response.get("session_id", "custom-session"),
            start_time=start_time,
            end_time=end_time,
            steps=steps,
            final_output=final_output,
            metrics=ExecutionMetrics(
                total_cost=sum(s.metrics.cost for s in steps),
                total_latency=total_latency,
                total_tokens=sum(s.metrics.tokens or 0 for s in steps),
            ),
        )

    async def _call_agent(self, query: str, context: dict) -> dict:
        """Make API call to your agent."""
        import httpx

        async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=self.timeout) as client:
            response = await client.post(
                self.endpoint,
                json={"query": query, **context},
                headers=self.headers,
            )
            response.raise_for_status()
            return response.json()

    def _parse_steps(self, response: dict) -> list:
        """Convert your response format to StepTrace objects."""
        steps = []

        for step_data in response.get("steps", []):
            step = StepTrace(
                step_id=step_data["id"],
                step_name=step_data["name"],
                tool_name=step_data.get("tool"),
                parameters=step_data.get("parameters", {}),
                output=step_data.get("output"),
                success=step_data.get("success", True),
                error=step_data.get("error"),
                metrics=StepMetrics(
                    latency=step_data.get("latency", 0.0),
                    cost=step_data.get("cost", 0.0),
                    tokens=step_data.get("tokens"),
                ),
            )
            steps.append(step)

        return steps

    async def health_check(self) -> bool:
        """Check if agent endpoint is reachable."""
        try:
            import httpx
            async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=5.0) as client:
                response = await client.get(self.endpoint)
                return response.status_code == 200
        except Exception:
            return False
```

### Register Your Adapter

```python
# evalview/cli.py

from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyCustomAdapter

# In _run_async function:
adapter_type = config.get("adapter", "http")
if adapter_type == "my-adapter":
    adapter = MyCustomAdapter(
        endpoint=config["endpoint"],
        headers=config.get("headers", {}),
        timeout=config.get("timeout", 30.0),
    )
```

## Adapter Examples

### LangServe Streaming

```python
class LangServeAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for LangServe streaming endpoints."""

    async def execute(self, query: str, context=None) -> ExecutionTrace:
        start_time = datetime.now()
        steps = []
        final_output = ""

        async with httpx.AsyncClient(timeout=self.timeout) as client:
            async with client.stream(
                "POST",
                f"{self.endpoint}/stream",
                json={"input": query},
            ) as response:
                async for line in response.aiter_lines():
                    if line.startswith("data: "):
                        data = json.loads(line[6:])
                        if "output" in data:
                            final_output = data["output"]

        end_time = datetime.now()
        # ... build ExecutionTrace
```

### OpenAI Assistants API

```python
class OpenAIAssistantsAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for OpenAI Assistants API."""

    async def execute(self, query: str, context=None) -> ExecutionTrace:
        import openai

        client = openai.AsyncOpenAI()
        start_time = datetime.now()

        # Create thread and run
        thread = await client.beta.threads.create()
        await client.beta.threads.messages.create(
            thread_id=thread.id,
            role="user",
            content=query
        )

        run = await client.beta.threads.runs.create(
            thread_id=thread.id,
            assistant_id=context.get("assistant_id")
        )

        # Poll for completion
        while run.status in ["queued", "in_progress"]:
            await asyncio.sleep(0.5)
            run = await client.beta.threads.runs.retrieve(
                thread_id=thread.id,
                run_id=run.id
            )

        # Extract steps
        steps = []
        for step in run.steps:
            if step.type == "tool_calls":
                for tool_call in step.step_details.tool_calls:
                    steps.append(StepTrace(
                        step_id=tool_call.id,
                        tool_name=tool_call.function.name,
                        parameters=json.loads(tool_call.function.arguments),
                        # ... more fields
                    ))

        # Get final message
        messages = await client.beta.threads.messages.list(thread_id=thread.id)
        final_output = messages.data[0].content[0].text.value

        end_time = datetime.now()
        # ... build ExecutionTrace
```

### CrewAI

```python
class CrewAIAdapter(AgentAdapter):
    """Adapter for CrewAI agents."""

    async def execute(self, query: str, context=None) -> ExecutionTrace:
        # CrewAI typically runs synchronously, wrap in thread
        from concurrent.futures import ThreadPoolExecutor
        import json

        def run_crew():
            # Import your crew
            from my_crew import MyCrew

            crew = MyCrew()
            result = crew.kickoff(inputs={"query": query})
            return result

        start_time = datetime.now()

        with ThreadPoolExecutor() as executor:
            future = executor.submit(run_crew)
            result = future.result(timeout=self.timeout)

        end_time = datetime.now()

        # Parse CrewAI result
        # ... convert to ExecutionTrace
```

## Testing Your Adapter

```python
# test_my_adapter.py
import asyncio
from evalview.adapters.my_adapter import MyCustomAdapter

async def test_adapter():
    adapter = MyCustomAdapter(
        endpoint="http://localhost:3000/api/agent"
    )

    # Test execution
    trace = await adapter.execute("Test query")

    print(f"Session: {trace.session_id}")
    print(f"Steps: {len(trace.steps)}")
    print(f"Output: {trace.final_output}")
    print(f"Latency: {trace.metrics.total_latency}ms")

asyncio.run(test_adapter())
```

## Best Practices

1. **Always capture timing** - Record start/end times accurately
2. **Handle errors gracefully** - Catch exceptions and log them
3. **Set reasonable timeouts** - Don't wait forever for responses
4. **Validate responses** - Check for required fields before parsing
5. **Log verbosely** - Use logger for debugging (respects DEBUG env var)
6. **Test with real data** - Use actual agent responses during development
7. **Document event formats** - Explain what your adapter expects

## Need Help?

- See `evalview/adapters/http_adapter.py` for simple example
- See `evalview/adapters/tapescope_adapter.py` for streaming example
- Open an issue on GitHub with your use case
- Check [DEBUGGING.md](../DEBUGGING.md) for troubleshooting

## Contributing Adapters

Have an adapter for a popular framework? We'd love to include it!

1. Create adapter in `evalview/adapters/your_adapter.py`
2. Add tests in `tests/adapters/test_your_adapter.py`
3. Document in this file
4. Submit PR with examples

Popular frameworks we'd love adapters for:
- AutoGPT
- BabyAGI
- SuperAGI
- LangGraph
- Haystack
