docs/BACKEND_REQUIREMENTS.md, before:

# Backend Requirements for EvalView Testing

This document outlines requirements for AI agent backends to work properly with EvalView testing framework.

## Quick Start (5 Minutes)

**Minimum to get started:**

1. Your agent must respond to POST requests:
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/chat \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"message": "Test query"}'
   ```

2. Response must include the agent's answer:
   ```json
   {"response": "Agent answer here..."}
   ```

3. That's it! You can now test output quality and latency.

**To add cost tracking (10 more minutes):**

Add metadata to your response:
```json
{
  "response": "Agent answer...",
  "metadata": {
    "cost": 0.05,
    "tokens": {"input": 100, "output": 500}
  }
}
```

**For full tool tracking (20 more minutes):**

Stream JSONL events (see Level 3 below).

---

## Overview

EvalView is a **general-purpose testing framework** for AI agents. It works with any agent that:
- Accepts queries via HTTP API
- Returns responses (streaming or non-streaming)
- Can emit structured execution data (optional but recommended)

## Three-Tier Support Model

EvalView supports agents at different levels of sophistication:

| Level | What You Provide | What Gets Tested | Setup Time |
|-------|-----------------|-----------------|------------|
| **Level 1: Basic** | Just text response | Output quality, latency | 5 minutes |
| **Level 2: Metadata** | Response + cost/tokens | Everything except tool sequence | 15 minutes |
| **Level 3: Streaming** | Full event stream | Everything (tools, cost, sequence) | 30 minutes |

### Level 1: Basic Agent (Minimum Viable)

**What you need:**
```json
POST /api/chat
{"message": "What is AAPL stock price?"}

Response:
{"response": "AAPL is trading at $266.25..."}
```

**What gets tested:**
- ✅ Output quality (contains expected keywords)
- ✅ Latency (response time)
- ❌ Cost (will show $0 with warning)
- ❌ Tools called
- ❌ Sequence correctness

**Best for:** Quick start, proof of concept, simple agents

### Level 2: Agent with Metadata (Recommended)

**What you need:**
```json
POST /api/chat
{"message": "Analyze AAPL stock"}

Response:
{
  "response": "AAPL analysis...",
  "metadata": {
    "cost": 0.05,
    "tokens": {"input": 100, "output": 500},
    "steps": ["fetch_data", "analyze", "synthesize"]
  }
}
```

**What gets tested:**
- ✅ Output quality
- ✅ Latency
- ✅ Cost (from metadata)
- ✅ Tools called (basic list)
- ⚠️  Sequence (order only, not parameters)

**Best for:** Most production agents, good balance of effort vs. coverage

### Level 3: Streaming Agent (Full Featured)

**What you need:** JSONL event stream (see below)

**What gets tested:** Everything with full fidelity

**Best for:** Complex multi-step agents, orchestrators, production systems

---

## Core Requirements

### 1. HTTP API Endpoint

Your agent must expose an HTTP endpoint that:
- Accepts POST requests with JSON payload
- Returns a response (sync or streaming)
- Completes within reasonable time (30-120 seconds recommended)

**Example request:**
```json
POST /api/chat
{
  "message": "Analyze AAPL stock performance",
  "userId": "test-user"
}
```

### 2. Response Format

Two options supported:

#### Option A: JSONL Streaming (Recommended)
Stream JSON Lines events for rich execution tracking:

```jsonl
{"type": "tool_call", "data": {"name": "analyzeStock", "args": {"symbol": "AAPL"}}}
{"type": "tool_result", "data": {"result": "...", "success": true}}
{"type": "usage", "data": {"input_tokens": 1000, "output_tokens": 500}}
{"type": "message_complete", "data": {"content": "Final response..."}}
```

#### Option B: Simple JSON Response
Return complete response in single JSON:

```json
{
  "response": "Complete agent response text...",
  "metadata": {
    "cost": 0.05,
    "tokens": 1500
  }
}
```

## Recommended: Structured Event Streaming

For comprehensive test coverage, emit these event types:

### Tool Call Events
When your agent calls a tool/function:
```json
{"type": "tool_call", "data": {
  "name": "analyzeStock",
  "args": {"symbol": "AAPL"}
}}
```

### Tool Result Events
After tool execution:
```json
{"type": "tool_result", "data": {
  "result": "Stock analysis data...",
  "success": true,
  "error": null
}}
```

### Step Narration (Alternative)
If you have step descriptions:
```json
{"type": "step_narration", "data": {
  "text": "Analyzing stock fundamentals",
  "toolName": "analyzeStock"
}}
```

### Usage/Cost Events
For cost tracking:
```json
{"type": "usage", "data": {
  "input_tokens": 1000,
  "output_tokens": 500,
  "cached_tokens": 100
}}
```

### Final Message
Complete response:
```json
{"type": "message_complete", "data": {
  "content": "Complete agent response..."
}}
```

## Critical: Avoid Infinite Loops

**Problem:** Your backend refining indefinitely blocks tests.

**Example Bad Pattern:**
```javascript
// ❌ DON'T DO THIS
while (quality < threshold) {
  result = await refine(result);
  // No limit - can loop forever!
}
```

**Solution:** Add max iteration limits
```javascript
// ✅ DO THIS
const MAX_REFINEMENTS = 3;
let refinements = 0;

while (quality < threshold && refinements < MAX_REFINEMENTS) {
  result = await refine(result);
  refinements++;
}
```

### Recommended Refinement Strategy

1. **Set max iterations:** 3-5 refinements maximum
2. **Add time limits:** Stop if taking > 30 seconds
3. **Check for improvements:** Stop if quality isn't increasing
4. **Return partial results:** Better to return "good enough" than timeout

**Example:**
```javascript
async function executeWithRefinement(query, maxRefinements = 3) {
  let result = await initialExecution(query);
  let refinements = 0;
  const startTime = Date.now();
  const MAX_TIME = 30000; // 30 seconds

  while (
    shouldRefine(result) &&
    refinements < maxRefinements &&
    (Date.now() - startTime) < MAX_TIME
  ) {
    result = await refine(result);
    refinements++;

    // Emit progress
    await stream.write(JSON.stringify({
      type: "status",
      data: {text: `Refinement ${refinements}/${maxRefinements}`}
    }) + "\n");
  }

  return result;
}
```

## Response Time Guidelines

| Agent Type | Recommended Timeout |
|-----------|-------------------|
| Simple Q&A | 10-30 seconds |
| Multi-step analysis | 30-90 seconds |
| Complex orchestration | 60-120 seconds |

**If your agent needs more time:**
- Reduce complexity
- Limit refinement iterations
- Parallelize tool calls
- Cache expensive operations

## Cost & Token Tracking

To enable cost evaluation, emit usage events:

```json
{"type": "usage", "data": {
  "input_tokens": 1000,
  "output_tokens": 500,
  "cached_tokens": 100,
  "model": "gpt-4" // optional
}}
```

EvalView will:
- Sum tokens across all steps
- Calculate costs using built-in pricing
- Compare against test thresholds

## Testing Your Backend

Before running EvalView tests:

1. **Test response time:**
   ```bash
   time curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/chat \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"message": "Test query"}'
   ```
   Should complete in < 60 seconds.

2. **Check event format:**
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/chat \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"message": "Test query"}' \
     | jq -R 'fromjson? | .type'
   ```
   Should show event types.

3. **Monitor logs:**
   Check for infinite loops or stuck operations.

## Common Issues

### Issue: Tests timeout
**Cause:** Backend stuck in refinement loop
**Fix:** Add max refinement limit (3-5 iterations)

### Issue: No cost tracking
**Cause:** Not emitting usage events
**Fix:** Emit `{"type": "usage", ...}` after each LLM call

### Issue: No tool calls captured
**Cause:** Not emitting tool_call/tool_result events
**Fix:** Emit events when tools execute

### Issue: Empty or incomplete responses
**Cause:** Streaming not properly closed
**Fix:** Always emit final `message_complete` event

## TapeScope-Specific Notes

If you're using TapeScope backend:

1. **Fix refinement loop** in your orchestrator:
   - Limit "TinyLLM refinement decision" to max 3-5 iterations
   - Add timeout after 30 seconds
   - Return results even if quality < threshold

2. **Emit streaming events** in your API route:
   - When calling `analyzeStock`, emit `tool_call` event
   - After tool completes, emit `tool_result` event
   - At the end, emit `message_complete` event

3. **Track token usage**:
   - Sum tokens from all LLM calls
   - Emit `usage` event with totals

## Questions?

- See `examples/` directory for reference implementations
- Check `evalview/adapters/` for adapter code
- File issues at: https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/issues

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/BACKEND_REQUIREMENTS.md, after:

# Backend Requirements — How to Make Your AI Agent Compatible with EvalView

> This document outlines what your AI agent backend needs to expose for EvalView testing. EvalView supports three tiers: basic (just text response), metadata (response + cost/tokens), and full streaming (JSONL event stream with tool calls).

## Quick Start (5 Minutes)

**Minimum to get started:**

1. Your agent must respond to POST requests:
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/chat \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"message": "Test query"}'
   ```

2. Response must include the agent's answer:
   ```json
   {"response": "Agent answer here..."}
   ```

3. That's it! You can now test output quality and latency.

**To add cost tracking (10 more minutes):**

Add metadata to your response:
```json
{
  "response": "Agent answer...",
  "metadata": {
    "cost": 0.05,
    "tokens": {"input": 100, "output": 500}
  }
}
```

**For full tool tracking (20 more minutes):**

Stream JSONL events (see Level 3 below).

---

## Overview

EvalView is a **general-purpose testing framework** for AI agents. It works with any agent that:
- Accepts queries via HTTP API
- Returns responses (streaming or non-streaming)
- Can emit structured execution data (optional but recommended)

## Three-Tier Support Model

EvalView supports agents at different levels of sophistication:

| Level | What You Provide | What Gets Tested | Setup Time |
|-------|-----------------|-----------------|------------|
| **Level 1: Basic** | Just text response | Output quality, latency | 5 minutes |
| **Level 2: Metadata** | Response + cost/tokens | Everything except tool sequence | 15 minutes |
| **Level 3: Streaming** | Full event stream | Everything (tools, cost, sequence) | 30 minutes |

### Level 1: Basic Agent (Minimum Viable)

**What you need:**
```json
POST /api/chat
{"message": "What is AAPL stock price?"}

Response:
{"response": "AAPL is trading at $266.25..."}
```

**What gets tested:**
- ✅ Output quality (contains expected keywords)
- ✅ Latency (response time)
- ❌ Cost (will show $0 with warning)
- ❌ Tools called
- ❌ Sequence correctness

**Best for:** Quick start, proof of concept, simple agents

### Level 2: Agent with Metadata (Recommended)

**What you need:**
```json
POST /api/chat
{"message": "Analyze AAPL stock"}

Response:
{
  "response": "AAPL analysis...",
  "metadata": {
    "cost": 0.05,
    "tokens": {"input": 100, "output": 500},
    "steps": ["fetch_data", "analyze", "synthesize"]
  }
}
```

**What gets tested:**
- ✅ Output quality
- ✅ Latency
- ✅ Cost (from metadata)
- ✅ Tools called (basic list)
- ⚠️  Sequence (order only, not parameters)

**Best for:** Most production agents, good balance of effort vs. coverage

### Level 3: Streaming Agent (Full Featured)

**What you need:** JSONL event stream (see below)

**What gets tested:** Everything with full fidelity

**Best for:** Complex multi-step agents, orchestrators, production systems

---

## Core Requirements

### 1. HTTP API Endpoint

Your agent must expose an HTTP endpoint that:
- Accepts POST requests with JSON payload
- Returns a response (sync or streaming)
- Completes within reasonable time (30-120 seconds recommended)

**Example request:**
```json
POST /api/chat
{
  "message": "Analyze AAPL stock performance",
  "userId": "test-user"
}
```

### 2. Response Format

Two options supported:

#### Option A: JSONL Streaming (Recommended)
Stream JSON Lines events for rich execution tracking:

```jsonl
{"type": "tool_call", "data": {"name": "analyzeStock", "args": {"symbol": "AAPL"}}}
{"type": "tool_result", "data": {"result": "...", "success": true}}
{"type": "usage", "data": {"input_tokens": 1000, "output_tokens": 500}}
{"type": "message_complete", "data": {"content": "Final response..."}}
```

#### Option B: Simple JSON Response
Return complete response in single JSON:

```json
{
  "response": "Complete agent response text...",
  "metadata": {
    "cost": 0.05,
    "tokens": 1500
  }
}
```

## Recommended: Structured Event Streaming

For comprehensive test coverage, emit these event types:

### Tool Call Events
When your agent calls a tool/function:
```json
{"type": "tool_call", "data": {
  "name": "analyzeStock",
  "args": {"symbol": "AAPL"}
}}
```

### Tool Result Events
After tool execution:
```json
{"type": "tool_result", "data": {
  "result": "Stock analysis data...",
  "success": true,
  "error": null
}}
```

### Step Narration (Alternative)
If you have step descriptions:
```json
{"type": "step_narration", "data": {
  "text": "Analyzing stock fundamentals",
  "toolName": "analyzeStock"
}}
```

### Usage/Cost Events
For cost tracking:
```json
{"type": "usage", "data": {
  "input_tokens": 1000,
  "output_tokens": 500,
  "cached_tokens": 100
}}
```

### Final Message
Complete response:
```json
{"type": "message_complete", "data": {
  "content": "Complete agent response..."
}}
```

## Critical: Avoid Infinite Loops

**Problem:** Your backend refining indefinitely blocks tests.

**Example Bad Pattern:**
```javascript
// ❌ DON'T DO THIS
while (quality < threshold) {
  result = await refine(result);
  // No limit - can loop forever!
}
```

**Solution:** Add max iteration limits
```javascript
// ✅ DO THIS
const MAX_REFINEMENTS = 3;
let refinements = 0;

while (quality < threshold && refinements < MAX_REFINEMENTS) {
  result = await refine(result);
  refinements++;
}
```

### Recommended Refinement Strategy

1. **Set max iterations:** 3-5 refinements maximum
2. **Add time limits:** Stop if taking > 30 seconds
3. **Check for improvements:** Stop if quality isn't increasing
4. **Return partial results:** Better to return "good enough" than timeout

**Example:**
```javascript
async function executeWithRefinement(query, maxRefinements = 3) {
  let result = await initialExecution(query);
  let refinements = 0;
  const startTime = Date.now();
  const MAX_TIME = 30000; // 30 seconds

  while (
    shouldRefine(result) &&
    refinements < maxRefinements &&
    (Date.now() - startTime) < MAX_TIME
  ) {
    result = await refine(result);
    refinements++;

    // Emit progress
    await stream.write(JSON.stringify({
      type: "status",
      data: {text: `Refinement ${refinements}/${maxRefinements}`}
    }) + "\n");
  }

  return result;
}
```

## Response Time Guidelines

| Agent Type | Recommended Timeout |
|-----------|-------------------|
| Simple Q&A | 10-30 seconds |
| Multi-step analysis | 30-90 seconds |
| Complex orchestration | 60-120 seconds |

**If your agent needs more time:**
- Reduce complexity
- Limit refinement iterations
- Parallelize tool calls
- Cache expensive operations

## Cost & Token Tracking

To enable cost evaluation, emit usage events:

```json
{"type": "usage", "data": {
  "input_tokens": 1000,
  "output_tokens": 500,
  "cached_tokens": 100,
  "model": "gpt-4" // optional
}}
```

EvalView will:
- Sum tokens across all steps
- Calculate costs using built-in pricing
- Compare against test thresholds

## Testing Your Backend

Before running EvalView tests:

1. **Test response time:**
   ```bash
   time curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/chat \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"message": "Test query"}'
   ```
   Should complete in < 60 seconds.

2. **Check event format:**
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/chat \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"message": "Test query"}' \
     | jq -R 'fromjson? | .type'
   ```
   Should show event types.

3. **Monitor logs:**
   Check for infinite loops or stuck operations.

## Common Issues

### Issue: Tests timeout
**Cause:** Backend stuck in refinement loop
**Fix:** Add max refinement limit (3-5 iterations)

### Issue: No cost tracking
**Cause:** Not emitting usage events
**Fix:** Emit `{"type": "usage", ...}` after each LLM call

### Issue: No tool calls captured
**Cause:** Not emitting tool_call/tool_result events
**Fix:** Emit events when tools execute

### Issue: Empty or incomplete responses
**Cause:** Streaming not properly closed
**Fix:** Always emit final `message_complete` event

## TapeScope-Specific Notes

If you're using TapeScope backend:

1. **Fix refinement loop** in your orchestrator:
   - Limit "TinyLLM refinement decision" to max 3-5 iterations
   - Add timeout after 30 seconds
   - Return results even if quality < threshold

2. **Emit streaming events** in your API route:
   - When calling `analyzeStock`, emit `tool_call` event
   - After tool completes, emit `tool_result` event
   - At the end, emit `message_complete` event

3. **Track token usage**:
   - Sum tokens from all LLM calls
   - Emit `usage` event with totals

## Questions?

- See `examples/` directory for reference implementations
- Check `evalview/adapters/` for adapter code
- File issues at: https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/issues
