docs/BEHAVIOR_COVERAGE.md, before:

# Behavior Coverage (Not Line Coverage)

Line coverage doesn't work for LLMs. Instead, EvalView focuses on **behavior coverage**:

| Dimension | What it measures |
|-----------|------------------|
| **Tasks covered** | Which real-world scenarios have tests? |
| **Tools exercised** | Are all your agent's tools being tested? |
| **Paths hit** | Are multi-step workflows tested end-to-end? |
| **Eval dimensions** | Are you checking correctness, safety, cost, latency? |

---

## The Loop

weird prod session → turn it into a regression test → it shows up in your coverage.

---

## Summary View

```bash
# Compact summary with deltas vs last run + regression detection
evalview run --summary
```

```
━━━ EvalView Summary ━━━
Suite: analytics_agent
Tests: 7 passed, 2 failed

Failures:
  ✗ cohort: large result set     cost +240%
  ✗ doc QA: long context         missing tool: chunking

Deltas vs last run:
  Tokens:  +188%  ↑
  Latency: +95ms  ↑
  Cost:    +$0.12 ↑

⚠️  Regressions detected
```

---

## Coverage Report

```bash
# Behavior coverage report
evalview run --coverage
```

```
━━━ Behavior Coverage ━━━
Suite: analytics_agent

Tasks:      9/9 scenarios (100%)
Tools:      6/8 exercised (75%)
            missing: chunking, summarize
Paths:      3/3 multi-step workflows (100%)
Dimensions: correctness ✓, output ✓, cost ✗, latency ✓, safety ✓

Overall:    92% behavior coverage
```

---

## Coverage Dimensions

### Tasks Covered

How many real-world scenarios have tests?

- Customer support queries
- Data analysis requests
- Error handling situations
- Edge cases

### Tools Exercised

Are all your agent's tools being tested?

```
Tools:      6/8 exercised (75%)
            missing: chunking, summarize
```

If tools aren't covered, add tests that require them.

### Paths Hit

Are multi-step workflows tested end-to-end?

For example:
1. User asks question → Agent searches → Agent analyzes → Agent responds
2. User uploads file → Agent parses → Agent validates → Agent processes

### Eval Dimensions

Are you checking all the important aspects?

- **Correctness** - Does the output answer the question?
- **Output quality** - Is the response well-formed?
- **Cost** - Is it within budget?
- **Latency** - Is it fast enough?
- **Safety** - Does it avoid harmful outputs?

---

## Improving Coverage

### Add tests for missing tools

```yaml
name: "Test chunking tool"
input:
  query: "Process this very long document"
expected:
  tools:
    - chunking
```

### Add tests for missing dimensions

```yaml
name: "Cost-sensitive test"
thresholds:
  max_cost: 0.01  # Ensure cost dimension is checked
```

### Add tests for edge cases

```yaml
name: "Empty input handling"
input:
  query: ""
expected:
  # Should handle gracefully, not crash
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Evaluation Metrics](EVALUATION_METRICS.md)
- [Suite Types](SUITE_TYPES.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/BEHAVIOR_COVERAGE.md, after:

# Behavior Coverage — Test Coverage Metrics for AI Agents

> **Problem:** Traditional code coverage (line coverage) doesn't work for AI agents. There are no lines to cover — the behavior is generated by an LLM.
>
> **Solution:** EvalView tracks behavior coverage: which tasks have tests, which tools are exercised, which multi-step paths are tested, and which evaluation dimensions are checked.

Line coverage doesn't work for LLMs. Instead, EvalView focuses on **behavior coverage**:

| Dimension | What it measures |
|-----------|------------------|
| **Tasks covered** | Which real-world scenarios have tests? |
| **Tools exercised** | Are all your agent's tools being tested? |
| **Paths hit** | Are multi-step workflows tested end-to-end? |
| **Eval dimensions** | Are you checking correctness, safety, cost, latency? |

---

## The Loop

weird prod session → turn it into a regression test → it shows up in your coverage.

---

## Summary View

```bash
# Compact summary with deltas vs last run + regression detection
evalview run --summary
```

```
━━━ EvalView Summary ━━━
Suite: analytics_agent
Tests: 7 passed, 2 failed

Failures:
  ✗ cohort: large result set     cost +240%
  ✗ doc QA: long context         missing tool: chunking

Deltas vs last run:
  Tokens:  +188%  ↑
  Latency: +95ms  ↑
  Cost:    +$0.12 ↑

⚠️  Regressions detected
```

---

## Coverage Report

```bash
# Behavior coverage report
evalview run --coverage
```

```
━━━ Behavior Coverage ━━━
Suite: analytics_agent

Tasks:      9/9 scenarios (100%)
Tools:      6/8 exercised (75%)
            missing: chunking, summarize
Paths:      3/3 multi-step workflows (100%)
Dimensions: correctness ✓, output ✓, cost ✗, latency ✓, safety ✓

Overall:    92% behavior coverage
```

---

## Coverage Dimensions

### Tasks Covered

How many real-world scenarios have tests?

- Customer support queries
- Data analysis requests
- Error handling situations
- Edge cases

### Tools Exercised

Are all your agent's tools being tested?

```
Tools:      6/8 exercised (75%)
            missing: chunking, summarize
```

If tools aren't covered, add tests that require them.

### Paths Hit

Are multi-step workflows tested end-to-end?

For example:
1. User asks question → Agent searches → Agent analyzes → Agent responds
2. User uploads file → Agent parses → Agent validates → Agent processes

### Eval Dimensions

Are you checking all the important aspects?

- **Correctness** - Does the output answer the question?
- **Output quality** - Is the response well-formed?
- **Cost** - Is it within budget?
- **Latency** - Is it fast enough?
- **Safety** - Does it avoid harmful outputs?

---

## Improving Coverage

### Add tests for missing tools

```yaml
name: "Test chunking tool"
input:
  query: "Process this very long document"
expected:
  tools:
    - chunking
```

### Add tests for missing dimensions

```yaml
name: "Cost-sensitive test"
thresholds:
  max_cost: 0.01  # Ensure cost dimension is checked
```

### Add tests for edge cases

```yaml
name: "Empty input handling"
input:
  query: ""
expected:
  # Should handle gracefully, not crash
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Evaluation Metrics](EVALUATION_METRICS.md)
- [Suite Types](SUITE_TYPES.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
