docs/CHAT_MODE.md, before:

# Chat Mode — AI-Powered CLI

**Don't remember commands? Just ask.**

<p align="center">
  <img src="../assets/chat-demo.gif" alt="EvalView Chat Demo" width="700">
</p>

```bash
evalview chat
```

Chat mode understands natural language AND knows all EvalView commands:

- *"Run my stock analysis test"* → Suggests `/run stock-test.yaml`
- *"Compare yesterday's run with today"* → Runs `/compare` for you
- *"What adapters do I have?"* → Lists available adapters
- *"Show me the trace from my last test"* → Displays execution trace

---

## Slash Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/run <file>` | Run a test case against its adapter |
| `/test <adapter> <query>` | Quick ad-hoc test against an adapter |
| `/compare <old> <new>` | Compare two test runs, detect regressions |
| `/adapters` | List available adapters |
| `/trace` | View execution trace from last run |
| `/help` | Show all commands |

---

## Natural Language Execution

When the LLM suggests a command, it asks if you want to run it:

```
You: How do I test my LangGraph agent?

Claude: To test your LangGraph agent, you can run:
  `/test langgraph "What's the weather?"`

Would you like me to run this command? [y/n]
```

---

## Provider Options

**Free & local** — powered by Ollama. No API key needed.

```bash
evalview chat                     # Auto-detects Ollama
evalview chat --provider openai   # Or use cloud models
evalview chat --provider anthropic
```

---

## Quick Comparison

Use the `/compare` command for side-by-side regression detection:

```bash
evalview chat
> /compare .evalview/results/old.json .evalview/results/new.json
```

Output:

```
┌─────────────────┬───────────┬───────────┬────────┬──────────┐
│ Test            │ Old Score │ New Score │ Δ      │ Status   │
├─────────────────┼───────────┼───────────┼────────┼──────────┤
│ stock-analysis  │ 92.5      │ 94.0      │ +1.5   │ ✅ OK    │
│ customer-support│ 88.0      │ 71.0      │ -17.0  │ REGR  │
└─────────────────┴───────────┴───────────┴────────┴──────────┘
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/CHAT_MODE.md, after:

# Chat Mode — Interactive AI-Powered CLI for Agent Testing

> **Problem:** CLI commands are hard to remember, especially when you're iterating quickly on agent tests.
>
> **Solution:** EvalView's chat mode lets you interact with your test suite using natural language. Ask "did my refactor break anything?" and get inline answers with regression comparisons.

**Don't remember commands? Just ask.**

<p align="center">
  <img src="../assets/chat-demo.gif" alt="EvalView Chat Demo" width="700">
</p>

```bash
evalview chat
```

Chat mode understands natural language AND knows all EvalView commands:

- *"Run my stock analysis test"* → Suggests `/run stock-test.yaml`
- *"Compare yesterday's run with today"* → Runs `/compare` for you
- *"What adapters do I have?"* → Lists available adapters
- *"Show me the trace from my last test"* → Displays execution trace

---

## Slash Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/run <file>` | Run a test case against its adapter |
| `/test <adapter> <query>` | Quick ad-hoc test against an adapter |
| `/compare <old> <new>` | Compare two test runs, detect regressions |
| `/adapters` | List available adapters |
| `/trace` | View execution trace from last run |
| `/help` | Show all commands |

---

## Natural Language Execution

When the LLM suggests a command, it asks if you want to run it:

```
You: How do I test my LangGraph agent?

Claude: To test your LangGraph agent, you can run:
  `/test langgraph "What's the weather?"`

Would you like me to run this command? [y/n]
```

---

## Provider Options

**Free & local** — powered by Ollama. No API key needed.

```bash
evalview chat                     # Auto-detects Ollama
evalview chat --provider openai   # Or use cloud models
evalview chat --provider anthropic
```

---

## Quick Comparison

Use the `/compare` command for side-by-side regression detection:

```bash
evalview chat
> /compare .evalview/results/old.json .evalview/results/new.json
```

Output:

```
┌─────────────────┬───────────┬───────────┬────────┬──────────┐
│ Test            │ Old Score │ New Score │ Δ      │ Status   │
├─────────────────┼───────────┼───────────┼────────┼──────────┤
│ stock-analysis  │ 92.5      │ 94.0      │ +1.5   │ ✅ OK    │
│ customer-support│ 88.0      │ 71.0      │ -17.0  │ REGR  │
└─────────────────┴───────────┴───────────┴────────┴──────────┘
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)
