docs/CI_CD.md, before:

# CI/CD Integration

EvalView is CLI-first. You can run it locally or add to CI.

---

## GitHub Action (Recommended)

Use the official EvalView GitHub Action for the simplest setup:

```yaml
name: EvalView Agent Tests

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  test-agents:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Run EvalView
        uses: hidai25/eval-view@v0.2.1
        with:
          openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
          diff: true
          fail-on: 'REGRESSION'
```

---

## Action Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `openai-api-key` | OpenAI API key for LLM-as-judge | - |
| `anthropic-api-key` | Anthropic API key (optional) | - |
| `diff` | Compare against golden baselines | `false` |
| `fail-on` | Statuses that fail CI (REGRESSION, TOOLS_CHANGED, OUTPUT_CHANGED) | `REGRESSION` |
| `config-path` | Path to config file | `.evalview/config.yaml` |
| `filter` | Filter tests by name pattern | - |
| `max-workers` | Parallel workers | `4` |
| `max-retries` | Retry failed tests | `2` |
| `fail-on-error` | Fail workflow on test failure | `true` |
| `generate-report` | Generate HTML report | `true` |
| `python-version` | Python version | `3.11` |

---

## Action Outputs

| Output | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `results-file` | Path to JSON results |
| `report-file` | Path to HTML report |
| `total-tests` | Total tests run |
| `passed-tests` | Passed count |
| `failed-tests` | Failed count |
| `pass-rate` | Pass rate percentage |

---

## Full Example with PR Comments

```yaml
name: EvalView Agent Tests

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  test-agents:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Run EvalView
        id: evalview
        uses: hidai25/eval-view@v0.2.1
        with:
          openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}

      - name: Upload results
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        with:
          name: evalview-results
          path: |
            .evalview/results/*.json
            evalview-report.html

      - name: Comment on PR
        uses: actions/github-script@v7
        with:
          script: |
            github.rest.issues.createComment({
              issue_number: context.issue.number,
              owner: context.repo.owner,
              repo: context.repo.repo,
              body: `## EvalView Results\n\n✅ ${`${{ steps.evalview.outputs.passed-tests }}`}/${`${{ steps.evalview.outputs.total-tests }}`} tests passed (${`${{ steps.evalview.outputs.pass-rate }}`}%)`
            });
```

---

## Manual Setup (Alternative)

If you prefer manual setup:

```yaml
name: EvalView Agent Tests

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  evalview:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: actions/setup-python@v5
        with:
          python-version: "3.11"
      - run: pip install evalview
      - run: evalview run --pattern "tests/test-cases/*.yaml"
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
```

---

## Configurable Strictness

Control what fails your CI:

```bash
# Default: only fail on score drops
evalview run --diff --fail-on REGRESSION

# Stricter: also fail on tool changes
evalview run --diff --fail-on REGRESSION,TOOLS_CHANGED

# Strictest: fail on any change
evalview run --diff --strict
```

---

## Exit Codes

| Scenario | Exit Code |
|----------|-----------|
| All tests pass, all PASSED | 0 |
| All tests pass, only warn-on statuses | 0 (with warnings) |
| Any test fails OR any fail-on status | 1 |
| Execution errors (network, timeout) | 2 |

---

## Regression Detection in CI

Block deploys when behavior regresses:

```yaml
- name: Run EvalView
  uses: hidai25/eval-view@v0.2.1
  with:
    openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
    diff: true              # Compare against golden baselines
    fail-on: 'REGRESSION'   # Block merge on regression
```

See [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md) for setting up baselines.

---

## GitLab CI

```yaml
evalview:
  image: python:3.11
  script:
    - pip install evalview
    - evalview run --pattern "tests/test-cases/*.yaml"
  variables:
    OPENAI_API_KEY: $OPENAI_API_KEY
```

---

## CircleCI

```yaml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  evalview:
    docker:
      - image: python:3.11
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: pip install evalview
      - run: evalview run --pattern "tests/test-cases/*.yaml"
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
- [Suite Types](SUITE_TYPES.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/CI_CD.md, after:

# CI/CD Integration — Automated AI Agent Testing in GitHub Actions, GitLab, and CircleCI

> **Problem:** How do you prevent broken AI agents from reaching production? Manual testing doesn't scale, and LLM outputs are non-deterministic.
>
> **Solution:** EvalView integrates with CI/CD pipelines to automatically run agent regression tests on every PR and block merges when behavior degrades. It provides a GitHub Action, proper exit codes, JSON output, and PR comment support.

EvalView is CLI-first. You can run it locally or add to CI.

---

## GitHub Action (Recommended)

Use the official EvalView GitHub Action for the simplest setup:

```yaml
name: EvalView Agent Tests

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  test-agents:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Run EvalView
        uses: hidai25/eval-view@v0.2.1
        with:
          openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
          diff: true
          fail-on: 'REGRESSION'
```

---

## Action Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `openai-api-key` | OpenAI API key for LLM-as-judge | - |
| `anthropic-api-key` | Anthropic API key (optional) | - |
| `diff` | Compare against golden baselines | `false` |
| `fail-on` | Statuses that fail CI (REGRESSION, TOOLS_CHANGED, OUTPUT_CHANGED) | `REGRESSION` |
| `config-path` | Path to config file | `.evalview/config.yaml` |
| `filter` | Filter tests by name pattern | - |
| `max-workers` | Parallel workers | `4` |
| `max-retries` | Retry failed tests | `2` |
| `fail-on-error` | Fail workflow on test failure | `true` |
| `generate-report` | Generate HTML report | `true` |
| `python-version` | Python version | `3.11` |

---

## Action Outputs

| Output | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `results-file` | Path to JSON results |
| `report-file` | Path to HTML report |
| `total-tests` | Total tests run |
| `passed-tests` | Passed count |
| `failed-tests` | Failed count |
| `pass-rate` | Pass rate percentage |

---

## Full Example with PR Comments

```yaml
name: EvalView Agent Tests

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  test-agents:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Run EvalView
        id: evalview
        uses: hidai25/eval-view@v0.2.1
        with:
          openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}

      - name: Upload results
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        with:
          name: evalview-results
          path: |
            .evalview/results/*.json
            evalview-report.html

      - name: Comment on PR
        uses: actions/github-script@v7
        with:
          script: |
            github.rest.issues.createComment({
              issue_number: context.issue.number,
              owner: context.repo.owner,
              repo: context.repo.repo,
              body: `## EvalView Results\n\n✅ ${`${{ steps.evalview.outputs.passed-tests }}`}/${`${{ steps.evalview.outputs.total-tests }}`} tests passed (${`${{ steps.evalview.outputs.pass-rate }}`}%)`
            });
```

---

## Manual Setup (Alternative)

If you prefer manual setup:

```yaml
name: EvalView Agent Tests

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  evalview:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: actions/setup-python@v5
        with:
          python-version: "3.11"
      - run: pip install evalview
      - run: evalview run --pattern "tests/test-cases/*.yaml"
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
```

---

## Configurable Strictness

Control what fails your CI:

```bash
# Default: only fail on score drops
evalview run --diff --fail-on REGRESSION

# Stricter: also fail on tool changes
evalview run --diff --fail-on REGRESSION,TOOLS_CHANGED

# Strictest: fail on any change
evalview run --diff --strict
```

---

## Exit Codes

| Scenario | Exit Code |
|----------|-----------|
| All tests pass, all PASSED | 0 |
| All tests pass, only warn-on statuses | 0 (with warnings) |
| Any test fails OR any fail-on status | 1 |
| Execution errors (network, timeout) | 2 |

---

## Regression Detection in CI

Block deploys when behavior regresses:

```yaml
- name: Run EvalView
  uses: hidai25/eval-view@v0.2.1
  with:
    openai-api-key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
    diff: true              # Compare against golden baselines
    fail-on: 'REGRESSION'   # Block merge on regression
```

See [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md) for setting up baselines.

---

## GitLab CI

```yaml
evalview:
  image: python:3.11
  script:
    - pip install evalview
    - evalview run --pattern "tests/test-cases/*.yaml"
  variables:
    OPENAI_API_KEY: $OPENAI_API_KEY
```

---

## CircleCI

```yaml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  evalview:
    docker:
      - image: python:3.11
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: pip install evalview
      - run: evalview run --pattern "tests/test-cases/*.yaml"
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
- [Suite Types](SUITE_TYPES.md)
