docs/CLI_REFERENCE.md, before:

# CLI Reference

Complete reference for all EvalView CLI commands.

## Installation

```bash
# Install (includes skills testing)
pip install evalview

# With HTML reports (Plotly charts)
pip install evalview[reports]

# With watch mode
pip install evalview[watch]

# All optional features
pip install evalview[all]
```

---

## `evalview quickstart`

The fastest way to try EvalView. Creates a demo agent, test case, and runs everything.

```bash
evalview quickstart
```

---

## `evalview run`

Run test cases.

```bash
evalview run [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --pattern TEXT         Test case file pattern (default: *.yaml)
  -t, --test TEXT        Run specific test(s) by name
  --diff                 Compare against golden traces, detect regressions
  --verbose              Enable verbose logging
  --sequential           Run tests one at a time (default: parallel)
  --max-workers N        Max parallel executions (default: 8)
  --max-retries N        Retry flaky tests N times (default: 0)
  --watch                Re-run tests on file changes
  --html-report PATH     Generate interactive HTML report
  --summary              Compact output with deltas vs last run + regression detection
  --coverage             Show behavior coverage: tasks, tools, paths, eval dimensions
  --judge-model TEXT     Model for LLM-as-judge (e.g., gpt-5, sonnet, llama-70b)
  --judge-provider TEXT  Provider for LLM-as-judge (openai, anthropic, huggingface, gemini, grok, ollama)
```

### Model Shortcuts

Use simple names, they auto-resolve:

| Shortcut | Full Model |
|----------|------------|
| `gpt-5` | `gpt-5` |
| `sonnet` | `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929` |
| `opus` | `claude-opus-4-5-20251101` |
| `llama-70b` | `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct` |
| `gemini` | `gemini-3.0` |
| `llama3.2` | `llama3.2` (Ollama) |

### Examples

```bash
# Basic run
evalview run

# Run specific tests
evalview run -t "stock-analysis" -t "customer-support"

# With regression detection
evalview run --diff

# Different judge models
evalview run --judge-model gpt-5 --judge-provider openai
evalview run --judge-model sonnet --judge-provider anthropic
evalview run --judge-model llama-70b --judge-provider huggingface  # Free!
evalview run --judge-model llama3.2 --judge-provider ollama  # Free & Local!
```

---

## `evalview expand`

Generate test variations from a seed test case.

```bash
evalview expand TEST_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --count N        Number of variations to generate (default: 10)
  --focus TEXT     Focus on specific scenarios (e.g., "edge cases, error scenarios")
```

### Examples

```bash
# Take 1 test, generate 100 variations
evalview expand tests/stock-test.yaml --count 100

# Focus on specific scenarios
evalview expand tests/stock-test.yaml --count 50 \
  --focus "different tickers, edge cases, error scenarios"
```

---

## `evalview record`

Record agent interactions and auto-generate test cases.

```bash
evalview record [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --interactive    Interactive recording mode
```

### Example

```bash
# Use your agent normally, auto-generate tests
evalview record --interactive
```

EvalView captures:
- Query → Tools called → Output
- Auto-generates test YAML
- Adds reasonable thresholds

---

## `evalview report`

Generate report from results.

```bash
evalview report RESULT_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --detailed       Include detailed metrics
  --html PATH      Generate HTML report
```

### Example

```bash
evalview report .evalview/results/20241118_004830.json --detailed --html report.html
```

---

## `evalview golden`

Manage golden traces for regression detection.

```bash
evalview golden <command> [OPTIONS]
```

### Commands

#### `evalview golden save`

Save a test result as the golden baseline.

```bash
evalview golden save RESULT_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --notes TEXT     Add notes to the golden trace
  --test TEXT      Save only a specific test from a multi-test result
```

Examples:
```bash
evalview golden save .evalview/results/xxx.json
evalview golden save result.json --notes "Post-refactor baseline"
evalview golden save result.json --test "specific-test-name"
```

#### `evalview golden list`

List all golden traces.

```bash
evalview golden list
```

#### `evalview golden show`

Show details of a golden trace.

```bash
evalview golden show TEST_NAME
```

#### `evalview golden delete`

Delete a golden trace.

```bash
evalview golden delete TEST_NAME [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --force    Skip confirmation prompt
```

---

## `evalview connect`

Auto-detect and connect to a running agent.

```bash
evalview connect
```

Supports 7+ frameworks with automatic detection:
LangGraph, CrewAI, OpenAI Assistants, Anthropic Claude, AutoGen, Dify, Custom APIs

---

## `evalview chat`

AI-powered CLI assistant.

```bash
evalview chat [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --provider TEXT    LLM provider (ollama, openai, anthropic)
```

See [Chat Mode](CHAT_MODE.md) for details.

---

## `evalview demo`

Run the interactive demo (no API key needed).

```bash
evalview demo
```

---

## `evalview skill` (Advanced)

Skills testing commands for Claude Code and OpenAI Codex SKILL.md workflows.

See [Advanced: Skills Testing](SKILLS_TESTING.md) for complete documentation.

```bash
evalview skill validate PATH      # Validate skill structure
evalview skill test TEST_FILE     # Run behavior tests
evalview skill doctor PATH        # Diagnose skill issues
```

---

## Exit Codes

| Scenario | Exit Code |
|----------|-----------|
| All tests pass, all PASSED | 0 |
| All tests pass, only warn-on statuses | 0 (with warnings) |
| Any test fails OR any fail-on status | 1 |
| Execution errors (network, timeout) | 2 |

---

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | OpenAI API key for LLM-as-judge |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | Anthropic API key |
| `HUGGINGFACE_API_KEY` | Hugging Face API key |

---

## Related Documentation

- [Getting Started](GETTING_STARTED.md)
- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)
- [Statistical Mode](STATISTICAL_MODE.md)
- [Chat Mode](CHAT_MODE.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/CLI_REFERENCE.md, after:

# CLI Reference — All EvalView Commands for AI Agent Testing

> Complete reference for all EvalView CLI commands, including `snapshot`, `check`, `run`, `chat`, `skill`, `mcp`, and more. EvalView is a command-line tool for testing and detecting regressions in AI agents.

Complete reference for all EvalView CLI commands.

## Installation

```bash
# Install (includes skills testing)
pip install evalview

# With HTML reports (Plotly charts)
pip install evalview[reports]

# With watch mode
pip install evalview[watch]

# All optional features
pip install evalview[all]
```

---

## `evalview quickstart`

The fastest way to try EvalView. Creates a demo agent, test case, and runs everything.

```bash
evalview quickstart
```

---

## `evalview run`

Run test cases.

```bash
evalview run [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --pattern TEXT         Test case file pattern (default: *.yaml)
  -t, --test TEXT        Run specific test(s) by name
  --diff                 Compare against golden traces, detect regressions
  --verbose              Enable verbose logging
  --sequential           Run tests one at a time (default: parallel)
  --max-workers N        Max parallel executions (default: 8)
  --max-retries N        Retry flaky tests N times (default: 0)
  --watch                Re-run tests on file changes
  --html-report PATH     Generate interactive HTML report
  --summary              Compact output with deltas vs last run + regression detection
  --coverage             Show behavior coverage: tasks, tools, paths, eval dimensions
  --judge-model TEXT     Model for LLM-as-judge (e.g., gpt-5, sonnet, llama-70b)
  --judge-provider TEXT  Provider for LLM-as-judge (openai, anthropic, huggingface, gemini, grok, ollama)
```

### Model Shortcuts

Use simple names, they auto-resolve:

| Shortcut | Full Model |
|----------|------------|
| `gpt-5` | `gpt-5` |
| `sonnet` | `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929` |
| `opus` | `claude-opus-4-5-20251101` |
| `llama-70b` | `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct` |
| `gemini` | `gemini-3.0` |
| `llama3.2` | `llama3.2` (Ollama) |

### Examples

```bash
# Basic run
evalview run

# Run specific tests
evalview run -t "stock-analysis" -t "customer-support"

# With regression detection
evalview run --diff

# Different judge models
evalview run --judge-model gpt-5 --judge-provider openai
evalview run --judge-model sonnet --judge-provider anthropic
evalview run --judge-model llama-70b --judge-provider huggingface  # Free!
evalview run --judge-model llama3.2 --judge-provider ollama  # Free & Local!
```

---

## `evalview expand`

Generate test variations from a seed test case.

```bash
evalview expand TEST_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --count N        Number of variations to generate (default: 10)
  --focus TEXT     Focus on specific scenarios (e.g., "edge cases, error scenarios")
```

### Examples

```bash
# Take 1 test, generate 100 variations
evalview expand tests/stock-test.yaml --count 100

# Focus on specific scenarios
evalview expand tests/stock-test.yaml --count 50 \
  --focus "different tickers, edge cases, error scenarios"
```

---

## `evalview record`

Record agent interactions and auto-generate test cases.

```bash
evalview record [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --interactive    Interactive recording mode
```

### Example

```bash
# Use your agent normally, auto-generate tests
evalview record --interactive
```

EvalView captures:
- Query → Tools called → Output
- Auto-generates test YAML
- Adds reasonable thresholds

---

## `evalview report`

Generate report from results.

```bash
evalview report RESULT_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --detailed       Include detailed metrics
  --html PATH      Generate HTML report
```

### Example

```bash
evalview report .evalview/results/20241118_004830.json --detailed --html report.html
```

---

## `evalview golden`

Manage golden traces for regression detection.

```bash
evalview golden <command> [OPTIONS]
```

### Commands

#### `evalview golden save`

Save a test result as the golden baseline.

```bash
evalview golden save RESULT_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --notes TEXT     Add notes to the golden trace
  --test TEXT      Save only a specific test from a multi-test result
```

Examples:
```bash
evalview golden save .evalview/results/xxx.json
evalview golden save result.json --notes "Post-refactor baseline"
evalview golden save result.json --test "specific-test-name"
```

#### `evalview golden list`

List all golden traces.

```bash
evalview golden list
```

#### `evalview golden show`

Show details of a golden trace.

```bash
evalview golden show TEST_NAME
```

#### `evalview golden delete`

Delete a golden trace.

```bash
evalview golden delete TEST_NAME [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --force    Skip confirmation prompt
```

---

## `evalview connect`

Auto-detect and connect to a running agent.

```bash
evalview connect
```

Supports 7+ frameworks with automatic detection:
LangGraph, CrewAI, OpenAI Assistants, Anthropic Claude, AutoGen, Dify, Custom APIs

---

## `evalview chat`

AI-powered CLI assistant.

```bash
evalview chat [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --provider TEXT    LLM provider (ollama, openai, anthropic)
```

See [Chat Mode](CHAT_MODE.md) for details.

---

## `evalview demo`

Run the interactive demo (no API key needed).

```bash
evalview demo
```

---

## `evalview skill` (Advanced)

Skills testing commands for Claude Code and OpenAI Codex SKILL.md workflows.

See [Advanced: Skills Testing](SKILLS_TESTING.md) for complete documentation.

```bash
evalview skill validate PATH      # Validate skill structure
evalview skill test TEST_FILE     # Run behavior tests
evalview skill doctor PATH        # Diagnose skill issues
```

---

## Exit Codes

| Scenario | Exit Code |
|----------|-----------|
| All tests pass, all PASSED | 0 |
| All tests pass, only warn-on statuses | 0 (with warnings) |
| Any test fails OR any fail-on status | 1 |
| Execution errors (network, timeout) | 2 |

---

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | OpenAI API key for LLM-as-judge |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | Anthropic API key |
| `HUGGINGFACE_API_KEY` | Hugging Face API key |

---

## Related Documentation

- [Getting Started](GETTING_STARTED.md)
- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)
- [Statistical Mode](STATISTICAL_MODE.md)
- [Chat Mode](CHAT_MODE.md)
