docs/DATABASE_SETUP.md, before:

# Database Setup for EvalView

EvalView can test any agent that uses a database for user management. This guide shows you how to set up test users for different database systems.

## Overview

Many AI agents require a valid user ID when processing requests. EvalView needs a test user in your database to run tests without affecting production users.

## Quick Setup

### Option 1: Use the Setup Script (Recommended)

```bash
cd /path/to/EvalView
node scripts/setup-test-user.js
```

This interactive script will:
1. Ask if you want to use a fixed test user or existing user
2. Update all your test cases with the chosen user ID
3. Save the configuration

### Option 2: Manual Configuration

Edit your test cases to include a `userId`:

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/example.yaml
input:
  query: "Your test query"
  context:
    userId: "your-test-user-id"  # Add this line
```

## Database-Specific Guides

### PostgreSQL (Prisma)

If your agent uses Prisma with PostgreSQL:

1. **Create a seed script** in your agent project:

```typescript
// prisma/seed-test-user.ts
import { config } from 'dotenv';
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client';

config({ path: '.env.local' });
const prisma = new PrismaClient();

async function main() {
  const testUser = await prisma.user.upsert({
    where: { email: 'test@evalview.local' },
    update: { name: 'EvalView Test User' },
    create: {
      id: 'test-user',
      email: 'test@evalview.local',
      name: 'EvalView Test User',
      // Add other required fields based on your schema
    },
  });
  console.log('Test user created:', testUser.id);
}

main().then(() => prisma.$disconnect());
```

2. **Run the seed script:**

```bash
npx tsx prisma/seed-test-user.ts
```

3. **Configure EvalView:**

```bash
cd /path/to/EvalView
node scripts/setup-test-user.js
# Choose option 1 and enter: test-user
```

### MongoDB

For MongoDB-based agents:

```javascript
// scripts/create-test-user.js
const { MongoClient } = require('mongodb');
require('dotenv').config({ path: '.env.local' });

async function main() {
  const client = new MongoClient(process.env.MONGODB_URI);
  await client.connect();

  const db = client.db();
  const users = db.collection('users');

  await users.updateOne(
    { email: 'test@evalview.local' },
    {
      $set: {
        _id: 'test-user',
        email: 'test@evalview.local',
        name: 'EvalView Test User',
        createdAt: new Date()
      }
    },
    { upsert: true }
  );

  console.log('Test user created: test-user');
  await client.close();
}

main();
```

### MySQL

For MySQL databases:

```sql
-- create_test_user.sql
INSERT INTO users (id, email, name, created_at)
VALUES ('test-user', 'test@evalview.local', 'EvalView Test User', NOW())
ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE
  name = 'EvalView Test User';
```

Run with:
```bash
mysql -u username -p database_name < create_test_user.sql
```

### Firebase / Firestore

For Firebase Auth:

```javascript
// scripts/create-test-user.js
const admin = require('firebase-admin');
const serviceAccount = require('./serviceAccountKey.json');

admin.initializeApp({
  credential: admin.credential.cert(serviceAccount)
});

async function createTestUser() {
  try {
    const user = await admin.auth().createUser({
      uid: 'test-user',
      email: 'test@evalview.local',
      displayName: 'EvalView Test User'
    });
    console.log('Test user created:', user.uid);
  } catch (error) {
    if (error.code === 'auth/uid-already-exists') {
      console.log('Test user already exists: test-user');
    } else {
      throw error;
    }
  }
}

createTestUser();
```

### Supabase

For Supabase:

```sql
-- Run in Supabase SQL Editor
INSERT INTO auth.users (
  id,
  instance_id,
  email,
  encrypted_password,
  email_confirmed_at,
  created_at,
  updated_at
)
VALUES (
  'test-user'::uuid,
  '00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000'::uuid,
  'test@evalview.local',
  crypt('test-password', gen_salt('bf')),
  now(),
  now(),
  now()
)
ON CONFLICT (id) DO NOTHING;
```

## Using Existing Users

If you prefer to use an existing user instead of creating a test user:

### 1. Find Your User ID

**PostgreSQL/Prisma:**
```bash
npx prisma studio
# Or via CLI:
psql -d your_database -c "SELECT id, email FROM users WHERE email = 'your@email.com';"
```

**MongoDB:**
```javascript
db.users.findOne({ email: "your@email.com" }, { _id: 1, email: 1 })
```

**MySQL:**
```sql
SELECT id, email FROM users WHERE email = 'your@email.com';
```

### 2. Configure EvalView

```bash
node scripts/setup-test-user.js
# Choose option 2 and enter your user ID
```

## Best Practices

### For Development

- Use a dedicated test user (`test-user`)
- Keep test user data separate from production
- Use a test-specific email domain (e.g., `@evalview.local`)

### For CI/CD

- Automate test user creation in your CI pipeline
- Use environment-specific user IDs
- Clean up test data after runs (optional)

### For Production Testing

- Never use production user accounts
- Create a dedicated test environment
- Use separate databases for testing

## Troubleshooting

### "Foreign key constraint violated"

**Cause:** Test user doesn't exist in database

**Fix:** Run the appropriate seed script for your database type

### "User not found" Errors

**Cause:** User ID doesn't match what's in the database

**Fix:**
1. Verify user exists: check your database
2. Update test cases with correct user ID:
   ```bash
   node scripts/setup-test-user.js
   ```

### Permission Errors

**Cause:** Test user lacks necessary permissions

**Fix:** Grant appropriate roles/permissions:

```sql
-- PostgreSQL example
UPDATE users SET role = 'user' WHERE id = 'test-user';
```

## No Database? No Problem!

If your agent doesn't use a database for users, you can:

1. **Skip user ID entirely** - omit `userId` from test cases
2. **Use any string** - some APIs accept any user identifier
3. **Configure in adapter** - modify the adapter to handle userless requests

See [ADAPTERS.md](ADAPTERS.md) for custom adapter development.

## Example Test Case

After setup, your test cases should look like:

```yaml
name: "My Test"
input:
  query: "Test query"
  context:
    userId: "test-user"  # Or your chosen user ID

expected:
  tools: [...]
  output:
    contains: [...]

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
```

## Next Steps

- **Run tests:** `evalview run --verbose`
- **See results:** Check `.evalview/results/`
- **Debug issues:** See [DEBUGGING.md](../DEBUGGING.md)

## Need Help?

- Check [DEBUGGING.md](../DEBUGGING.md) for common issues
- See examples in `tests/test-cases/`
- Open an issue on GitHub

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/DATABASE_SETUP.md, after:

# Database Setup for EvalView — Test User Configuration for AI Agent Testing

> EvalView does NOT require a database. This guide is only for teams whose AI agents require a valid user ID in their database. It shows how to set up test users for PostgreSQL, MongoDB, MySQL, Firebase, and Supabase.

## Overview

Many AI agents require a valid user ID when processing requests. EvalView needs a test user in your database to run tests without affecting production users.

## Quick Setup

### Option 1: Use the Setup Script (Recommended)

```bash
cd /path/to/EvalView
node scripts/setup-test-user.js
```

This interactive script will:
1. Ask if you want to use a fixed test user or existing user
2. Update all your test cases with the chosen user ID
3. Save the configuration

### Option 2: Manual Configuration

Edit your test cases to include a `userId`:

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/example.yaml
input:
  query: "Your test query"
  context:
    userId: "your-test-user-id"  # Add this line
```

## Database-Specific Guides

### PostgreSQL (Prisma)

If your agent uses Prisma with PostgreSQL:

1. **Create a seed script** in your agent project:

```typescript
// prisma/seed-test-user.ts
import { config } from 'dotenv';
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client';

config({ path: '.env.local' });
const prisma = new PrismaClient();

async function main() {
  const testUser = await prisma.user.upsert({
    where: { email: 'test@evalview.local' },
    update: { name: 'EvalView Test User' },
    create: {
      id: 'test-user',
      email: 'test@evalview.local',
      name: 'EvalView Test User',
      // Add other required fields based on your schema
    },
  });
  console.log('Test user created:', testUser.id);
}

main().then(() => prisma.$disconnect());
```

2. **Run the seed script:**

```bash
npx tsx prisma/seed-test-user.ts
```

3. **Configure EvalView:**

```bash
cd /path/to/EvalView
node scripts/setup-test-user.js
# Choose option 1 and enter: test-user
```

### MongoDB

For MongoDB-based agents:

```javascript
// scripts/create-test-user.js
const { MongoClient } = require('mongodb');
require('dotenv').config({ path: '.env.local' });

async function main() {
  const client = new MongoClient(process.env.MONGODB_URI);
  await client.connect();

  const db = client.db();
  const users = db.collection('users');

  await users.updateOne(
    { email: 'test@evalview.local' },
    {
      $set: {
        _id: 'test-user',
        email: 'test@evalview.local',
        name: 'EvalView Test User',
        createdAt: new Date()
      }
    },
    { upsert: true }
  );

  console.log('Test user created: test-user');
  await client.close();
}

main();
```

### MySQL

For MySQL databases:

```sql
-- create_test_user.sql
INSERT INTO users (id, email, name, created_at)
VALUES ('test-user', 'test@evalview.local', 'EvalView Test User', NOW())
ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE
  name = 'EvalView Test User';
```

Run with:
```bash
mysql -u username -p database_name < create_test_user.sql
```

### Firebase / Firestore

For Firebase Auth:

```javascript
// scripts/create-test-user.js
const admin = require('firebase-admin');
const serviceAccount = require('./serviceAccountKey.json');

admin.initializeApp({
  credential: admin.credential.cert(serviceAccount)
});

async function createTestUser() {
  try {
    const user = await admin.auth().createUser({
      uid: 'test-user',
      email: 'test@evalview.local',
      displayName: 'EvalView Test User'
    });
    console.log('Test user created:', user.uid);
  } catch (error) {
    if (error.code === 'auth/uid-already-exists') {
      console.log('Test user already exists: test-user');
    } else {
      throw error;
    }
  }
}

createTestUser();
```

### Supabase

For Supabase:

```sql
-- Run in Supabase SQL Editor
INSERT INTO auth.users (
  id,
  instance_id,
  email,
  encrypted_password,
  email_confirmed_at,
  created_at,
  updated_at
)
VALUES (
  'test-user'::uuid,
  '00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000'::uuid,
  'test@evalview.local',
  crypt('test-password', gen_salt('bf')),
  now(),
  now(),
  now()
)
ON CONFLICT (id) DO NOTHING;
```

## Using Existing Users

If you prefer to use an existing user instead of creating a test user:

### 1. Find Your User ID

**PostgreSQL/Prisma:**
```bash
npx prisma studio
# Or via CLI:
psql -d your_database -c "SELECT id, email FROM users WHERE email = 'your@email.com';"
```

**MongoDB:**
```javascript
db.users.findOne({ email: "your@email.com" }, { _id: 1, email: 1 })
```

**MySQL:**
```sql
SELECT id, email FROM users WHERE email = 'your@email.com';
```

### 2. Configure EvalView

```bash
node scripts/setup-test-user.js
# Choose option 2 and enter your user ID
```

## Best Practices

### For Development

- Use a dedicated test user (`test-user`)
- Keep test user data separate from production
- Use a test-specific email domain (e.g., `@evalview.local`)

### For CI/CD

- Automate test user creation in your CI pipeline
- Use environment-specific user IDs
- Clean up test data after runs (optional)

### For Production Testing

- Never use production user accounts
- Create a dedicated test environment
- Use separate databases for testing

## Troubleshooting

### "Foreign key constraint violated"

**Cause:** Test user doesn't exist in database

**Fix:** Run the appropriate seed script for your database type

### "User not found" Errors

**Cause:** User ID doesn't match what's in the database

**Fix:**
1. Verify user exists: check your database
2. Update test cases with correct user ID:
   ```bash
   node scripts/setup-test-user.js
   ```

### Permission Errors

**Cause:** Test user lacks necessary permissions

**Fix:** Grant appropriate roles/permissions:

```sql
-- PostgreSQL example
UPDATE users SET role = 'user' WHERE id = 'test-user';
```

## No Database? No Problem!

If your agent doesn't use a database for users, you can:

1. **Skip user ID entirely** - omit `userId` from test cases
2. **Use any string** - some APIs accept any user identifier
3. **Configure in adapter** - modify the adapter to handle userless requests

See [ADAPTERS.md](ADAPTERS.md) for custom adapter development.

## Example Test Case

After setup, your test cases should look like:

```yaml
name: "My Test"
input:
  query: "Test query"
  context:
    userId: "test-user"  # Or your chosen user ID

expected:
  tools: [...]
  output:
    contains: [...]

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
```

## Next Steps

- **Run tests:** `evalview run --verbose`
- **See results:** Check `.evalview/results/`
- **Debug issues:** See [DEBUGGING.md](../DEBUGGING.md)

## Need Help?

- Check [DEBUGGING.md](../DEBUGGING.md) for common issues
- See examples in `tests/test-cases/`
- Open an issue on GitHub
