docs/DEBUGGING.md, before:

# Debugging EvalView — How to Debug Failing AI Agent Tests

> This guide helps you troubleshoot issues when running EvalView tests, including "No response" errors, database issues, timeouts, and tool name mismatches.

## Common Issues

### 1. Tests Failing with "No response"

**Symptom**: Test results show `final_output: "No response"` and score 0

**Cause**: The adapter isn't parsing the API response correctly

**Solution**: Run with verbose mode to see what the API is actually returning:

```bash
# Option 1: Use --verbose flag
evalview run --verbose

# Option 2: Set DEBUG environment variable
DEBUG=1 evalview run
```

This will show you:
- 🚀 Request being sent
- 📤 Request payload
- ✅ Response status
- 📥 Each line of the streaming response
- 🔍 Parsed event types
- ⚠️ Unhandled events or errors

### 2. Database Foreign Key Errors

**Symptom**: Error message about `Foreign key constraint violated` for `userId`

**Cause**: The test user ID doesn't exist in your database

**Solutions**:

**Option A**: Create a test user in your database
```sql
-- For PostgreSQL (adjust for your database)
INSERT INTO users (id, email, name)
VALUES ('test-user', 'test@example.com', 'Test User');
```

**Option B**: Use a real user ID from your database
Edit your test cases to use a valid user:
```yaml
# tests/test-cases/example.yaml
input:
  query: "Your query here"
  context:
    userId: "your-real-user-id"  # Use an actual user ID
```

**Option C**: Update your API to handle non-existent test users gracefully

### 3. Tests Timing Out

**Symptom**: Tests exceed latency threshold (e.g., 76s instead of 10s)

**Possible causes**:
- API endpoint is slow
- Database queries are slow
- External API calls are timing out

**Solutions**:
1. Increase timeout in config:
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
timeout: 120.0  # Increase from 60.0
```

2. Increase latency threshold in test case:
```yaml
# tests/test-cases/example.yaml
thresholds:
  max_latency: 120000  # 120 seconds instead of 10
```

3. Optimize your API endpoints

### 4. Wrong Tool Names

**Symptom**: Test shows "missing tools" even though your API is working

**Cause**: Your API uses different tool names than expected in the test

**Solution**: Update your test case to match your actual tool names. Run with `--verbose` to see what tools are actually being called.

## Understanding the Adapter

### TapeScopeAdapter Event Types

The adapter recognizes these event types from JSONL streaming:

| Event Type | Description | Action |
|------------|-------------|--------|
| `tool_call` | Tool is being executed | Creates a new step |
| `tool_result` | Tool execution completed | Updates last step with result |
| `final_message` | Final response from agent | Sets final_output |
| `token` | Streaming token (SSE) | Appends to final_output |
| `error` | Error occurred | Sets error message |
| `start`, `status`, `thinking`, `step_start`, `step_complete` | Informational | Logged only |

### Adding Support for Your Event Format

If your API uses different event types, you can:

1. **Check logs**: Run with `--verbose` to see what event types your API sends

2. **Extend the adapter**: Edit `evalview/adapters/tapescope_adapter.py` to handle your event types

3. **Use HTTPAdapter**: If your API returns a simple JSON response (non-streaming), use the HTTPAdapter instead:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: http  # Instead of tapescope
endpoint: http://localhost:3000/api/your-endpoint
```

## Verbose Output Example

```
🔍 Verbose mode enabled

Running test cases...

2025-11-19 22:30:00 - tapescope_adapter - INFO - 🚀 Executing request: Analyze AAPL stock performance...
2025-11-19 22:30:00 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - 📤 Payload: {
  "message": "Analyze AAPL stock performance",
  "route": "orchestrator",
  "userId": "test-user"
}
2025-11-19 22:30:00 - tapescope_adapter - INFO - ✅ Response status: 200
2025-11-19 22:30:01 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - 📥 Line 1: {"type":"start","data":{"planId":"plan_123"}}
2025-11-19 22:30:01 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - 🔍 Event type: 'start'
2025-11-19 22:30:01 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - ℹ️ Info event: start
...
```

## Getting Help

If you're still having issues:

1. Check the results JSON file: `.evalview/results/TIMESTAMP.json`
2. Look at the `trace` section to see what was captured
3. Compare `expected` vs `actual` in the evaluations
4. Open an issue with the verbose output and your test case

## Tips

- Start with simple test cases and gradually add complexity
- Use the conversational route for faster iteration during development
- Check that your API endpoint is actually running before running tests
- Verify your OPENAI_API_KEY is set correctly for LLM-as-judge evaluation

---

## Related Documentation

- [Troubleshooting](TROUBLESHOOTING.md) — Common issues with type errors, tool mismatches, and LLM judges
- [Adapters](ADAPTERS.md) — Adapter configuration and response parsing
- [Trace Specification](TRACE_SPEC.md) — Understanding the execution trace format
- [YAML Schema](YAML_SCHEMA.md) — Test case schema reference
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md) — Verbose mode and debug flags

Commit message:

docs: surface forbidden_tools and trace replay across all agent-facing surfaces
MCP server (create_test tool):
- Add forbidden_tools to inputSchema with full description of semantics,
  matching rules, and use-case guidance so an LLM calling this tool knows
  to set it when generating a safety-constrained test
- _create_test YAML generator emits the forbidden_tools block with a
  clarifying comment; summary line shows "forbidden_tools (hard-fail): ..."

docs/EVALUATION_METRICS.md:
- Update header from "5-dimensional" to "6-dimensional" (forbidden_tools
  is a first-class evaluation dimension now)
- Add forbidden_tools to the weights table as the first row (Hard-fail)
  with a callout explaining evaluation order
- Add dedicated "Forbidden Tools — Hard-Fail Safety Gate" section with
  the rationale for binary (not penalty) semantics, matching rules, and
  a concrete failure output example

docs/DEBUGGING.md:
- Add "HTML Trace Replay — Start Here" section at the top as the primary
  debugging entry point; explains span types, forbidden-tool banner, and
  the TraceContext vs fallback distinction for adapter authors

https://claude.ai/code/session_01X2MuXtGyAZ5NpwR3gpWWrk

docs/DEBUGGING.md, after:

# Debugging EvalView — How to Debug Failing AI Agent Tests

> This guide helps you troubleshoot issues when running EvalView tests, including "No response" errors, database issues, timeouts, and tool name mismatches.

## HTML Trace Replay — Start Here

The fastest way to debug a failing test is the **Trace Replay** tab in the HTML report.
It shows every LLM call and tool invocation in execution order with full detail.

```bash
evalview run --output-format html   # Generates report, auto-opens in browser
```

In the report, click any test card → open the **Trace Replay** tab. Each span is clickable:

| Span | Expandable detail |
|------|-----------------|
| **LLM** (blue) | Exact prompt sent to the model, full completion, token counts, finish reason |
| **TOOL** (amber) | Parameters passed to the tool (JSON), full result returned |
| **AGENT** (purple) | Root execution boundary, total duration |

**Forbidden tool violations** appear as a red alert banner above the tabs — the exact
tool name that violated the contract is shown, so there is no ambiguity.

This replaces the "add a print statement and re-run" loop. You see what the model saw at
step 3 without changing any code.

> **Note:** The Trace Replay tab is richest when your adapter populates
> `ExecutionTrace.trace_context` via `evalview.core.tracing.Tracer`. If it shows
> "No span data captured", the fallback step list from `trace.steps` is used instead —
> it still shows tool calls with parameters and results, but not LLM prompt/completion.

---

## Common Issues

### 1. Tests Failing with "No response"

**Symptom**: Test results show `final_output: "No response"` and score 0

**Cause**: The adapter isn't parsing the API response correctly

**Solution**: Run with verbose mode to see what the API is actually returning:

```bash
# Option 1: Use --verbose flag
evalview run --verbose

# Option 2: Set DEBUG environment variable
DEBUG=1 evalview run
```

This will show you:
- 🚀 Request being sent
- 📤 Request payload
- ✅ Response status
- 📥 Each line of the streaming response
- 🔍 Parsed event types
- ⚠️ Unhandled events or errors

### 2. Database Foreign Key Errors

**Symptom**: Error message about `Foreign key constraint violated` for `userId`

**Cause**: The test user ID doesn't exist in your database

**Solutions**:

**Option A**: Create a test user in your database
```sql
-- For PostgreSQL (adjust for your database)
INSERT INTO users (id, email, name)
VALUES ('test-user', 'test@example.com', 'Test User');
```

**Option B**: Use a real user ID from your database
Edit your test cases to use a valid user:
```yaml
# tests/test-cases/example.yaml
input:
  query: "Your query here"
  context:
    userId: "your-real-user-id"  # Use an actual user ID
```

**Option C**: Update your API to handle non-existent test users gracefully

### 3. Tests Timing Out

**Symptom**: Tests exceed latency threshold (e.g., 76s instead of 10s)

**Possible causes**:
- API endpoint is slow
- Database queries are slow
- External API calls are timing out

**Solutions**:
1. Increase timeout in config:
```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
timeout: 120.0  # Increase from 60.0
```

2. Increase latency threshold in test case:
```yaml
# tests/test-cases/example.yaml
thresholds:
  max_latency: 120000  # 120 seconds instead of 10
```

3. Optimize your API endpoints

### 4. Wrong Tool Names

**Symptom**: Test shows "missing tools" even though your API is working

**Cause**: Your API uses different tool names than expected in the test

**Solution**: Update your test case to match your actual tool names. Run with `--verbose` to see what tools are actually being called.

## Understanding the Adapter

### TapeScopeAdapter Event Types

The adapter recognizes these event types from JSONL streaming:

| Event Type | Description | Action |
|------------|-------------|--------|
| `tool_call` | Tool is being executed | Creates a new step |
| `tool_result` | Tool execution completed | Updates last step with result |
| `final_message` | Final response from agent | Sets final_output |
| `token` | Streaming token (SSE) | Appends to final_output |
| `error` | Error occurred | Sets error message |
| `start`, `status`, `thinking`, `step_start`, `step_complete` | Informational | Logged only |

### Adding Support for Your Event Format

If your API uses different event types, you can:

1. **Check logs**: Run with `--verbose` to see what event types your API sends

2. **Extend the adapter**: Edit `evalview/adapters/tapescope_adapter.py` to handle your event types

3. **Use HTTPAdapter**: If your API returns a simple JSON response (non-streaming), use the HTTPAdapter instead:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: http  # Instead of tapescope
endpoint: http://localhost:3000/api/your-endpoint
```

## Verbose Output Example

```
🔍 Verbose mode enabled

Running test cases...

2025-11-19 22:30:00 - tapescope_adapter - INFO - 🚀 Executing request: Analyze AAPL stock performance...
2025-11-19 22:30:00 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - 📤 Payload: {
  "message": "Analyze AAPL stock performance",
  "route": "orchestrator",
  "userId": "test-user"
}
2025-11-19 22:30:00 - tapescope_adapter - INFO - ✅ Response status: 200
2025-11-19 22:30:01 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - 📥 Line 1: {"type":"start","data":{"planId":"plan_123"}}
2025-11-19 22:30:01 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - 🔍 Event type: 'start'
2025-11-19 22:30:01 - tapescope_adapter - DEBUG - ℹ️ Info event: start
...
```

## Getting Help

If you're still having issues:

1. Check the results JSON file: `.evalview/results/TIMESTAMP.json`
2. Look at the `trace` section to see what was captured
3. Compare `expected` vs `actual` in the evaluations
4. Open an issue with the verbose output and your test case

## Tips

- Start with simple test cases and gradually add complexity
- Use the conversational route for faster iteration during development
- Check that your API endpoint is actually running before running tests
- Verify your OPENAI_API_KEY is set correctly for LLM-as-judge evaluation

---

## Related Documentation

- [Troubleshooting](TROUBLESHOOTING.md) — Common issues with type errors, tool mismatches, and LLM judges
- [Adapters](ADAPTERS.md) — Adapter configuration and response parsing
- [Trace Specification](TRACE_SPEC.md) — Understanding the execution trace format
- [YAML Schema](YAML_SCHEMA.md) — Test case schema reference
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md) — Verbose mode and debug flags
