docs/EVALUATION_METRICS.md, before:

# Evaluation Metrics

EvalView evaluates agents across multiple dimensions to give you a complete picture of agent quality.

---

## Default Weights

| Metric | Weight | Description |
|--------|--------|-------------|
| **Tool Accuracy** | 30% | Checks if expected tools were called |
| **Output Quality** | 50% | LLM-as-judge evaluation |
| **Sequence Correctness** | 20% | Validates tool call order (flexible matching) |
| **Cost Threshold** | Pass/Fail | Must stay under `max_cost` |
| **Latency Threshold** | Pass/Fail | Must complete under `max_latency` |

Weights are configurable globally or per-test.

---

## Customizing Weights

### Global Configuration

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
weights:
  tool_accuracy: 0.4
  output_quality: 0.4
  sequence_correctness: 0.2
```

### Per-Test Configuration

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/my-test.yaml
name: "My Test"
weights:
  tool_accuracy: 0.5
  output_quality: 0.3
  sequence_correctness: 0.2
```

---

## Sequence Matching Modes

By default, EvalView uses **flexible sequence matching** — your agent won't fail just because it used extra tools.

| Mode | Behavior | Use When |
|------|----------|----------|
| `subsequence` (default) | Expected tools in order, extras allowed | Most cases — agents can think/verify without penalty |
| `exact` | Exact match required | Strict compliance testing |
| `unordered` | Tools called, order doesn't matter | Order-independent workflows |

### Examples

**subsequence (default)**
```
Expected: [search, analyze]
Actual:   [search, think, analyze, verify]
Result:   ✓ PASS (search, analyze appear in order)
```

**exact**
```
Expected: [search, analyze]
Actual:   [search, think, analyze]
Result:   ✗ FAIL (extra tool: think)
```

**unordered**
```
Expected: [search, analyze]
Actual:   [analyze, search]
Result:   ✓ PASS (both tools called)
```

### Setting the Mode

```yaml
# Per-test override
adapter_config:
  sequence_mode: unordered
```

---

## Tool Accuracy

Measures whether the agent called the expected tools.

```yaml
expected:
  tools:
    - fetch_data
    - analyze
```

**Scoring:**
- All expected tools called: 100%
- Some missing: Proportional score
- No expected tools called: 0%

See [Tool Categories](TOOL_CATEGORIES.md) for flexible matching by intent.

---

## Output Quality (LLM-as-Judge)

Uses an LLM to evaluate the quality of the agent's output.

**Evaluation criteria:**
- Does the output answer the question?
- Is it accurate and factual?
- Is it well-structured?
- Does it follow instructions?

### Custom Evaluation Criteria

```yaml
expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "revenue"
      - "earnings"
    not_contains:
      - "I don't know"
```

---

## Cost Threshold

Fail if the test exceeds a cost limit:

```yaml
thresholds:
  max_cost: 0.50  # Fail if cost > $0.50
```

---

## Latency Threshold

Fail if the test takes too long:

```yaml
thresholds:
  max_latency: 5000  # Fail if > 5 seconds (in ms)
```

---

## Combining Thresholds

```yaml
name: "Stock Analysis Test"
input:
  query: "Analyze Apple stock performance"

expected:
  tools:
    - fetch_stock_data
    - analyze_metrics
  output:
    contains:
      - "revenue"
      - "earnings"

thresholds:
  min_score: 80    # Overall score must be >= 80
  max_cost: 0.50   # Must cost less than $0.50
  max_latency: 5000  # Must complete in < 5 seconds
```

---

## Hallucination Detection

EvalView can detect when agents make things up:

```yaml
checks:
  hallucination: true
```

This compares the agent's output against the tool results to detect fabricated information.

---

## Example Test Output

```
✅ Stock Analysis Test - PASSED (score: 92.5)

Tool Accuracy:      100% (2/2 tools called)
Output Quality:     90/100 (LLM-as-judge)
Sequence:           100% (correct order)

Cost:    $0.0234 (limit: $0.50) ✓
Latency: 3.4s (limit: 5s) ✓
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Tool Categories](TOOL_CATEGORIES.md)
- [Statistical Mode](STATISTICAL_MODE.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/EVALUATION_METRICS.md, after:

# Evaluation Metrics — How EvalView Scores AI Agents

> **Problem:** How do you score an AI agent's quality? Output quality alone isn't enough — you need to verify it called the right tools, in the right order, under budget, and within latency limits.
>
> **Solution:** EvalView uses 5-dimensional scoring: tool accuracy, output quality, sequence correctness, cost, and latency. Each is independently configurable with weights and thresholds.

EvalView evaluates agents across multiple dimensions to give you a complete picture of agent quality.

---

## Default Weights

| Metric | Weight | Description |
|--------|--------|-------------|
| **Tool Accuracy** | 30% | Checks if expected tools were called |
| **Output Quality** | 50% | LLM-as-judge evaluation |
| **Sequence Correctness** | 20% | Validates tool call order (flexible matching) |
| **Cost Threshold** | Pass/Fail | Must stay under `max_cost` |
| **Latency Threshold** | Pass/Fail | Must complete under `max_latency` |

Weights are configurable globally or per-test.

---

## Customizing Weights

### Global Configuration

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
weights:
  tool_accuracy: 0.4
  output_quality: 0.4
  sequence_correctness: 0.2
```

### Per-Test Configuration

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/my-test.yaml
name: "My Test"
weights:
  tool_accuracy: 0.5
  output_quality: 0.3
  sequence_correctness: 0.2
```

---

## Sequence Matching Modes

By default, EvalView uses **flexible sequence matching** — your agent won't fail just because it used extra tools.

| Mode | Behavior | Use When |
|------|----------|----------|
| `subsequence` (default) | Expected tools in order, extras allowed | Most cases — agents can think/verify without penalty |
| `exact` | Exact match required | Strict compliance testing |
| `unordered` | Tools called, order doesn't matter | Order-independent workflows |

### Examples

**subsequence (default)**
```
Expected: [search, analyze]
Actual:   [search, think, analyze, verify]
Result:   ✓ PASS (search, analyze appear in order)
```

**exact**
```
Expected: [search, analyze]
Actual:   [search, think, analyze]
Result:   ✗ FAIL (extra tool: think)
```

**unordered**
```
Expected: [search, analyze]
Actual:   [analyze, search]
Result:   ✓ PASS (both tools called)
```

### Setting the Mode

```yaml
# Per-test override
adapter_config:
  sequence_mode: unordered
```

---

## Tool Accuracy

Measures whether the agent called the expected tools.

```yaml
expected:
  tools:
    - fetch_data
    - analyze
```

**Scoring:**
- All expected tools called: 100%
- Some missing: Proportional score
- No expected tools called: 0%

See [Tool Categories](TOOL_CATEGORIES.md) for flexible matching by intent.

---

## Output Quality (LLM-as-Judge)

Uses an LLM to evaluate the quality of the agent's output.

**Evaluation criteria:**
- Does the output answer the question?
- Is it accurate and factual?
- Is it well-structured?
- Does it follow instructions?

### Custom Evaluation Criteria

```yaml
expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "revenue"
      - "earnings"
    not_contains:
      - "I don't know"
```

---

## Cost Threshold

Fail if the test exceeds a cost limit:

```yaml
thresholds:
  max_cost: 0.50  # Fail if cost > $0.50
```

---

## Latency Threshold

Fail if the test takes too long:

```yaml
thresholds:
  max_latency: 5000  # Fail if > 5 seconds (in ms)
```

---

## Combining Thresholds

```yaml
name: "Stock Analysis Test"
input:
  query: "Analyze Apple stock performance"

expected:
  tools:
    - fetch_stock_data
    - analyze_metrics
  output:
    contains:
      - "revenue"
      - "earnings"

thresholds:
  min_score: 80    # Overall score must be >= 80
  max_cost: 0.50   # Must cost less than $0.50
  max_latency: 5000  # Must complete in < 5 seconds
```

---

## Hallucination Detection

EvalView can detect when agents make things up:

```yaml
checks:
  hallucination: true
```

This compares the agent's output against the tool results to detect fabricated information.

---

## Example Test Output

```
✅ Stock Analysis Test - PASSED (score: 92.5)

Tool Accuracy:      100% (2/2 tools called)
Output Quality:     90/100 (LLM-as-judge)
Sequence:           100% (correct order)

Cost:    $0.0234 (limit: $0.50) ✓
Latency: 3.4s (limit: 5s) ✓
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Tool Categories](TOOL_CATEGORIES.md)
- [Statistical Mode](STATISTICAL_MODE.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
