docs/QUICKSTART_HUGGINGFACE.md, before:

# Quick Start: HuggingFace + EvalView

Use EvalView with HuggingFace - **zero OpenAI dependency, 100% open source**.

## Key Concept: Agent vs Judge

EvalView has two independent components:

| Component | What it does | Config |
|-----------|--------------|--------|
| **Agent Adapter** | The AI agent you're testing | `adapter:` in config.yaml |
| **LLM-as-Judge** | Scores the agent's outputs | `EVAL_PROVIDER` env var |

**You can mix and match!** Test any agent (OpenAI, Claude, LangGraph, etc.) while using Llama as the free judge.

---

This guide covers:
1. **Using Llama as LLM-as-judge** (free evaluation, no OpenAI needed)
2. **Testing HuggingFace Spaces agents** (Gradio-based agents)

---

## Prerequisites

Get your free HuggingFace token:
1. Go to https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens
2. Create a new token with "Read" permissions
3. Set it in your environment:

```bash
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token_here"
```

---

## Option 1: Use Llama as LLM-as-Judge

Skip OpenAI entirely - use Llama to evaluate your agent's outputs.

### Step 1: Set HuggingFace Token

```bash
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token_here"
```

### Step 2: Run Your Tests

**Option A: CLI flags (recommended)**
```bash
# Use Llama as judge with simple shortcut
evalview run --judge-model llama-70b --judge-provider huggingface

# Or use 8B for faster iteration
evalview run --judge-model llama --judge-provider huggingface
```

**Option B: Environment variables**
```bash
export EVAL_PROVIDER=huggingface
export EVAL_MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
evalview run
```

### Works With ANY Agent

The judge (Llama) is **independent** from the agent you're testing. You can use HuggingFace/Llama to evaluate any agent:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml - Test OpenAI Assistants, judged by Llama
adapter: openai-assistants
model:
  name: gpt-4o

# .evalview/config.yaml - Test Anthropic Claude, judged by Llama
adapter: anthropic
model:
  name: claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929

# .evalview/config.yaml - Test LangGraph agent, judged by Llama
adapter: langgraph
endpoint: http://localhost:2024

# .evalview/config.yaml - Test any HTTP API, judged by Llama
adapter: http
endpoint: http://localhost:8000/api/agent
```

Just set `EVAL_PROVIDER=huggingface` in `.env.local` and your agent's outputs will be scored by Llama - **regardless of which agent you're testing**.

### Available Models

| Model | Speed | Quality | Best For |
|-------|-------|---------|----------|
| `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct` | Fast | Good | Development, CI |
| `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct` | Medium | Better | Production evals |
| `mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1` | Fast | Good | Alternative |

---

## Option 2: Test a HuggingFace Spaces Agent

Test any Gradio-based agent hosted on HuggingFace Spaces.

### Step 1: Find Your Space URL

Your Space URL can be in any of these formats:
- `username/my-agent`
- `https://huggingface.co/spaces/username/my-agent`
- `https://username-my-agent.hf.space`

### Step 2: Connect EvalView

```bash
# Connect to your Space (auto-detects everything)
evalview connect --adapter huggingface --endpoint username/my-agent

# Or use the full URL
evalview connect --adapter hf --endpoint https://huggingface.co/spaces/username/my-agent
```

### Step 3: Create a Test Case

Create `tests/test-cases/my-hf-agent.yaml`:

```yaml
name: "HuggingFace Agent Test"
description: "Test my Gradio chatbot"

input:
  query: "What is the capital of France?"

expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "Paris"
    not_contains:
      - "error"
      - "sorry"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_latency: 30000  # 30s (Spaces can be slow on cold start)
```

### Step 4: Run Tests

```bash
evalview run --verbose
```

---

## Full Example: 100% Open Source Stack

Test a HuggingFace agent using Llama as the judge:

```bash
# 1. Set up environment
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token"
export EVAL_PROVIDER=huggingface

# 2. Initialize project
evalview init

# 3. Connect to a public chatbot Space (example)
evalview connect --adapter hf --endpoint HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat

# 4. Run tests
evalview run --verbose
```

**Cost: $0** - Uses HF free tier for both agent and evaluation.

---

## Configuration Reference

### config.yaml

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: huggingface
endpoint: username/my-space

# Optional settings
timeout: 120  # Longer timeout for AI inference
verbose: true

# HuggingFace-specific
hf_token: ${HF_TOKEN}  # Uses environment variable
function_name: chat    # Auto-detected if not specified
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `HF_TOKEN` | HuggingFace API token | `hf_abc123...` |
| `EVAL_PROVIDER` | Force evaluation provider | `huggingface` |
| `EVAL_MODEL` | Override evaluation model | `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct` |

---

## Handling Sleeping Spaces

Free-tier Spaces sleep after inactivity. EvalView handles this automatically, but the first request may take 30-60 seconds.

Tips:
- Set `max_latency: 60000` in test thresholds for cold starts
- Use `--verbose` to see wake-up progress
- Consider upgrading to a paid Space for production testing

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Not a Gradio Space or API not enabled"

```bash
# Check the Space is a Gradio app
curl https://username-space.hf.space/gradio_api/info

# If 404, the Space either:
# - Isn't using Gradio
# - Has API disabled
# - Is still sleeping (wait and retry)
```

### "No API endpoints found"

The Gradio app doesn't expose any functions. Check with the Space owner or use a different Space.

### "401 Unauthorized"

```bash
# Make sure HF_TOKEN is set
echo $HF_TOKEN

# Verify token works
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $HF_TOKEN" \
  https://huggingface.co/api/whoami
```

### "Connection timeout"

Space is sleeping or slow. Try:
```bash
# Increase timeout
evalview run --timeout 120

# Or wake the Space manually first
curl https://username-space.hf.space
sleep 30
evalview run
```

---

## Popular Public Spaces to Test Against

| Space | Type | URL |
|-------|------|-----|
| HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat | Chatbot | `HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat` |
| microsoft/DialoGPT | Conversational | `microsoft/DialoGPT-large` |
| facebook/blenderbot | Chatbot | `facebook/blenderbot-400M-distill` |

---

## Next Steps

1. **Write more tests** - Add scenarios to `tests/test-cases/`
2. **Add to CI** - Run `evalview run` in GitHub Actions
3. **Deploy your own agent** - Create a Gradio Space and test it
4. **Compare models** - Switch `EVAL_MODEL` to compare judge quality

---

**Need help?** Check [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](TROUBLESHOOTING.md) or [open an issue](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/issues)!

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/QUICKSTART_HUGGINGFACE.md, after:

# Quick Start: Testing with HuggingFace + EvalView (Free, Open Source)

> Use EvalView with HuggingFace for free, fully open-source AI agent testing — zero OpenAI dependency. Test any agent and use Llama as a free LLM-as-judge.

## Key Concept: Agent vs Judge

EvalView has two independent components:

| Component | What it does | Config |
|-----------|--------------|--------|
| **Agent Adapter** | The AI agent you're testing | `adapter:` in config.yaml |
| **LLM-as-Judge** | Scores the agent's outputs | `EVAL_PROVIDER` env var |

**You can mix and match!** Test any agent (OpenAI, Claude, LangGraph, etc.) while using Llama as the free judge.

---

This guide covers:
1. **Using Llama as LLM-as-judge** (free evaluation, no OpenAI needed)
2. **Testing HuggingFace Spaces agents** (Gradio-based agents)

---

## Prerequisites

Get your free HuggingFace token:
1. Go to https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens
2. Create a new token with "Read" permissions
3. Set it in your environment:

```bash
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token_here"
```

---

## Option 1: Use Llama as LLM-as-Judge

Skip OpenAI entirely - use Llama to evaluate your agent's outputs.

### Step 1: Set HuggingFace Token

```bash
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token_here"
```

### Step 2: Run Your Tests

**Option A: CLI flags (recommended)**
```bash
# Use Llama as judge with simple shortcut
evalview run --judge-model llama-70b --judge-provider huggingface

# Or use 8B for faster iteration
evalview run --judge-model llama --judge-provider huggingface
```

**Option B: Environment variables**
```bash
export EVAL_PROVIDER=huggingface
export EVAL_MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
evalview run
```

### Works With ANY Agent

The judge (Llama) is **independent** from the agent you're testing. You can use HuggingFace/Llama to evaluate any agent:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml - Test OpenAI Assistants, judged by Llama
adapter: openai-assistants
model:
  name: gpt-4o

# .evalview/config.yaml - Test Anthropic Claude, judged by Llama
adapter: anthropic
model:
  name: claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929

# .evalview/config.yaml - Test LangGraph agent, judged by Llama
adapter: langgraph
endpoint: http://localhost:2024

# .evalview/config.yaml - Test any HTTP API, judged by Llama
adapter: http
endpoint: http://localhost:8000/api/agent
```

Just set `EVAL_PROVIDER=huggingface` in `.env.local` and your agent's outputs will be scored by Llama - **regardless of which agent you're testing**.

### Available Models

| Model | Speed | Quality | Best For |
|-------|-------|---------|----------|
| `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct` | Fast | Good | Development, CI |
| `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct` | Medium | Better | Production evals |
| `mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1` | Fast | Good | Alternative |

---

## Option 2: Test a HuggingFace Spaces Agent

Test any Gradio-based agent hosted on HuggingFace Spaces.

### Step 1: Find Your Space URL

Your Space URL can be in any of these formats:
- `username/my-agent`
- `https://huggingface.co/spaces/username/my-agent`
- `https://username-my-agent.hf.space`

### Step 2: Connect EvalView

```bash
# Connect to your Space (auto-detects everything)
evalview connect --adapter huggingface --endpoint username/my-agent

# Or use the full URL
evalview connect --adapter hf --endpoint https://huggingface.co/spaces/username/my-agent
```

### Step 3: Create a Test Case

Create `tests/test-cases/my-hf-agent.yaml`:

```yaml
name: "HuggingFace Agent Test"
description: "Test my Gradio chatbot"

input:
  query: "What is the capital of France?"

expected:
  output:
    contains:
      - "Paris"
    not_contains:
      - "error"
      - "sorry"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_latency: 30000  # 30s (Spaces can be slow on cold start)
```

### Step 4: Run Tests

```bash
evalview run --verbose
```

---

## Full Example: 100% Open Source Stack

Test a HuggingFace agent using Llama as the judge:

```bash
# 1. Set up environment
export HF_TOKEN="hf_your_token"
export EVAL_PROVIDER=huggingface

# 2. Initialize project
evalview init

# 3. Connect to a public chatbot Space (example)
evalview connect --adapter hf --endpoint HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat

# 4. Run tests
evalview run --verbose
```

**Cost: $0** - Uses HF free tier for both agent and evaluation.

---

## Configuration Reference

### config.yaml

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
adapter: huggingface
endpoint: username/my-space

# Optional settings
timeout: 120  # Longer timeout for AI inference
verbose: true

# HuggingFace-specific
hf_token: ${HF_TOKEN}  # Uses environment variable
function_name: chat    # Auto-detected if not specified
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `HF_TOKEN` | HuggingFace API token | `hf_abc123...` |
| `EVAL_PROVIDER` | Force evaluation provider | `huggingface` |
| `EVAL_MODEL` | Override evaluation model | `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct` |

---

## Handling Sleeping Spaces

Free-tier Spaces sleep after inactivity. EvalView handles this automatically, but the first request may take 30-60 seconds.

Tips:
- Set `max_latency: 60000` in test thresholds for cold starts
- Use `--verbose` to see wake-up progress
- Consider upgrading to a paid Space for production testing

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Not a Gradio Space or API not enabled"

```bash
# Check the Space is a Gradio app
curl https://username-space.hf.space/gradio_api/info

# If 404, the Space either:
# - Isn't using Gradio
# - Has API disabled
# - Is still sleeping (wait and retry)
```

### "No API endpoints found"

The Gradio app doesn't expose any functions. Check with the Space owner or use a different Space.

### "401 Unauthorized"

```bash
# Make sure HF_TOKEN is set
echo $HF_TOKEN

# Verify token works
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $HF_TOKEN" \
  https://huggingface.co/api/whoami
```

### "Connection timeout"

Space is sleeping or slow. Try:
```bash
# Increase timeout
evalview run --timeout 120

# Or wake the Space manually first
curl https://username-space.hf.space
sleep 30
evalview run
```

---

## Popular Public Spaces to Test Against

| Space | Type | URL |
|-------|------|-----|
| HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat | Chatbot | `HuggingFaceH4/zephyr-chat` |
| microsoft/DialoGPT | Conversational | `microsoft/DialoGPT-large` |
| facebook/blenderbot | Chatbot | `facebook/blenderbot-400M-distill` |

---

## Next Steps

1. **Write more tests** - Add scenarios to `tests/test-cases/`
2. **Add to CI** - Run `evalview run` in GitHub Actions
3. **Deploy your own agent** - Create a Gradio Space and test it
4. **Compare models** - Switch `EVAL_MODEL` to compare judge quality

---

**Need help?** Check [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](TROUBLESHOOTING.md) or [open an issue](https://github.com/hidai25/eval-view/issues)!
