docs/QUICKSTART_LANGGRAPH.md, before:

# Quick Start: Testing LangGraph with EvalView

This guide gets you testing your LangGraph agent in **5 minutes**.

## Step 1: Start Your LangGraph Agent

```bash
# Navigate to your LangGraph project
cd /path/to/your/langgraph-agent

# Start the server (check your project's README for the exact command)
python main.py
# OR
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000

# Verify it's running:
curl http://localhost:8000
```

## Step 2: Connect EvalView to Your Agent

```bash
# Auto-detect and configure the endpoint
evalview connect

# Or manually specify your endpoint:
evalview connect --endpoint http://localhost:8000/api/chat
```

This will:
- ✅ Test the connection
- ✅ Auto-update `.evalview/config.yaml`
- ✅ Tell you the correct adapter type

## Step 3: Run Your Tests

```bash
# Run with verbose output to see what's happening
evalview run --verbose
```

## Step 4: Review Results

After running tests, you'll see:
- ✅ Pass/fail status for each test
- 📊 Scores, costs, and latency
- 💾 Results saved to `.evalview/results/`

View detailed report:
```bash
evalview report .evalview/results/LATEST.json --detailed
```

## Troubleshooting

### "Cannot connect to agent"
```bash
# Check if your agent is running
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "test"}'

# If not working, check:
# 1. Is the server running?
# 2. Is it on port 8000?
# 3. What's the correct endpoint path?
```

### "Wrong endpoint"
Update `.evalview/config.yaml`:
```yaml
endpoint: http://localhost:YOUR_PORT/YOUR_PATH
```

### "Tool names don't match"
Run with `--verbose` to see the actual API response, then update your test YAML files with the correct tool names.

## Next Steps

1. **Customize test cases** in `tests/test-cases/`
2. **Add more scenarios** - Copy and modify the example YAMLs
3. **Adjust thresholds** - Based on your agent's actual performance
4. **Run regularly** - Add to your CI/CD pipeline

## Example Test Case

Create `tests/test-cases/my-test.yaml`:

```yaml
name: "My Custom Test"
description: "Test my agent does X"

input:
  query: "Your test query here"
  context: {}

expected:
  tools: []  # Add tool names after seeing verbose output
  output:
    contains:
      - "expected keyword 1"
      - "expected keyword 2"
    not_contains:
      - "error"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_cost: 0.50
  max_latency: 10000
```

## Tips

- 🔍 Always use `--verbose` initially to understand API responses
- 📝 Start with loose thresholds, tighten based on actual performance
- 🧪 Test one scenario at a time when debugging
- 💰 Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in `.env.local` for LLM-as-judge evaluation

---

**Need help?** Check [DEBUGGING.md](DEBUGGING.md) or open an issue!

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/QUICKSTART_LANGGRAPH.md, after:

# Quick Start: Testing LangGraph Agents with EvalView

> This guide gets you testing your LangGraph agent with EvalView in 5 minutes. EvalView provides a dedicated LangGraph adapter with auto-detection, streaming support, and native thread tracking.

## Step 1: Start Your LangGraph Agent

```bash
# Navigate to your LangGraph project
cd /path/to/your/langgraph-agent

# Start the server (check your project's README for the exact command)
python main.py
# OR
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000

# Verify it's running:
curl http://localhost:8000
```

## Step 2: Connect EvalView to Your Agent

```bash
# Auto-detect and configure the endpoint
evalview connect

# Or manually specify your endpoint:
evalview connect --endpoint http://localhost:8000/api/chat
```

This will:
- ✅ Test the connection
- ✅ Auto-update `.evalview/config.yaml`
- ✅ Tell you the correct adapter type

## Step 3: Run Your Tests

```bash
# Run with verbose output to see what's happening
evalview run --verbose
```

## Step 4: Review Results

After running tests, you'll see:
- ✅ Pass/fail status for each test
- 📊 Scores, costs, and latency
- 💾 Results saved to `.evalview/results/`

View detailed report:
```bash
evalview report .evalview/results/LATEST.json --detailed
```

## Troubleshooting

### "Cannot connect to agent"
```bash
# Check if your agent is running
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "test"}'

# If not working, check:
# 1. Is the server running?
# 2. Is it on port 8000?
# 3. What's the correct endpoint path?
```

### "Wrong endpoint"
Update `.evalview/config.yaml`:
```yaml
endpoint: http://localhost:YOUR_PORT/YOUR_PATH
```

### "Tool names don't match"
Run with `--verbose` to see the actual API response, then update your test YAML files with the correct tool names.

## Next Steps

1. **Customize test cases** in `tests/test-cases/`
2. **Add more scenarios** - Copy and modify the example YAMLs
3. **Adjust thresholds** - Based on your agent's actual performance
4. **Run regularly** - Add to your CI/CD pipeline

## Example Test Case

Create `tests/test-cases/my-test.yaml`:

```yaml
name: "My Custom Test"
description: "Test my agent does X"

input:
  query: "Your test query here"
  context: {}

expected:
  tools: []  # Add tool names after seeing verbose output
  output:
    contains:
      - "expected keyword 1"
      - "expected keyword 2"
    not_contains:
      - "error"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_cost: 0.50
  max_latency: 10000
```

## Tips

- 🔍 Always use `--verbose` initially to understand API responses
- 📝 Start with loose thresholds, tighten based on actual performance
- 🧪 Test one scenario at a time when debugging
- 💰 Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in `.env.local` for LLM-as-judge evaluation

---

**Need help?** Check [DEBUGGING.md](DEBUGGING.md) or open an issue!
