docs/SETUP_LANGGRAPH_EXAMPLE.md, before:

# Testing LangGraph Example with EvalView

Step-by-step guide to test the [LangGraph example](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph-example) with EvalView.

---

## Step 1: Set Up LangGraph Example

```bash
# Clone the LangGraph example
cd ~/Downloads  # or wherever you keep projects
git clone https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph-example.git
cd langgraph-example

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env  # If it exists

# Add your API keys to .env
# You'll need:
# - OPENAI_API_KEY
# - ANTHROPIC_API_KEY (if using Claude)
# - TAVILY_API_KEY (for web search, if needed)
```

## Step 2: Run the LangGraph Agent

The LangGraph example typically runs as a FastAPI server. Start it:

```bash
# Check the README for the exact command, but typically:
python main.py
# Or:
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000

# The agent should now be running at http://localhost:8000
```

**Note:** Check the repository's README for the exact startup command.

## Step 3: Test the Agent API Manually

Before using EvalView, verify the agent works:

```bash
# Test with curl
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What is the weather in San Francisco?"}'

# Or use their web UI if available
open http://localhost:8000
```

## Step 4: Understand the API Format

Look at the response format. You need to know:
1. **Endpoint URL** - e.g., `http://localhost:8000/api/chat`
2. **Request format** - What fields does it expect? (`query`, `message`, etc.)
3. **Response format** - Does it return `steps`, `output`, `tools_used`?
4. **Is it streaming?** - Does it return JSONL stream or complete JSON?

Example response you might see:
```json
{
  "output": "The weather in SF is...",
  "steps": [
    {
      "tool": "tavily_search",
      "parameters": {"query": "weather san francisco"},
      "output": {...}
    }
  ]
}
```

## Step 5: Set Up EvalView

In a new terminal (keep LangGraph running):

```bash
# Navigate to EvalView directory
cd ~/Downloads/EvalView
source venv/bin/activate

# Initialize EvalView for this agent
evalview init --interactive
```

During setup:
1. **API type**: Choose "Standard REST API" or "Streaming" based on what you found in Step 4
2. **Endpoint**: `http://localhost:8000/api/chat` (or whatever you found)
3. **Model**: Choose the model LangGraph is using (check their .env or code)
4. **Pricing**: Accept defaults or customize

## Step 6: Create a Test Case

Create `tests/test-cases/langgraph-weather.yaml`:

```yaml
name: "LangGraph Weather Test"
description: "Test agent's ability to fetch weather data"

input:
  query: "What is the weather in San Francisco?"
  context: {}

expected:
  tools:
    - tavily_search  # Or whatever tool they use
  tool_sequence:
    - tavily_search
  output:
    contains:
      - "San Francisco"
      - "weather"
    not_contains:
      - "error"
      - "failed"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_cost: 0.50
  max_latency: 10000
```

**Note:** You'll need to adjust:
- `tools` - Look at the API response to see what tool names they use
- `output.contains` - What should be in the response?

## Step 7: Configure the Adapter (If Needed)

If the LangGraph API format doesn't match EvalView's expectations, edit `.evalview/config.yaml`:

```yaml
adapter: http
endpoint: http://localhost:8000/api/chat
timeout: 30.0
headers:
  Content-Type: application/json

model:
  name: gpt-4o-mini
```

**If they use streaming JSONL:**
```yaml
adapter: streaming
endpoint: http://localhost:8000/api/chat/stream
timeout: 60.0
```

## Step 8: Run EvalView Tests

```bash
# Set your OpenAI API key (for LLM-as-judge)
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key

# Run tests with verbose output to see what's happening
evalview run --verbose

# Or run specific test
evalview run --pattern "langgraph-*.yaml" --verbose
```

## Step 9: Debug if Needed

If tests fail, use verbose mode to see the API response:

```bash
evalview run --verbose
```

Common issues:

### Issue: "No response from agent"
**Fix:** Check that LangGraph is running and the endpoint URL is correct.

```bash
# Test manually
curl http://localhost:8000/api/chat -d '{"query": "test"}'
```

### Issue: "Tool names don't match"
**Fix:** Look at the actual API response in verbose output, update your test case with the correct tool names.

### Issue: "Response format not recognized"
**Fix:** You may need to create a custom adapter. See below.

## Step 10: Create Custom Adapter (Advanced)

If the LangGraph API format is very different, create a custom adapter:

```python
# evalview/adapters/langgraph_adapter.py
from evalview.adapters.http_adapter import HTTPAdapter
from evalview.core.types import ExecutionTrace, StepTrace
from typing import Dict, Any

class LangGraphAdapter(HTTPAdapter):
    """Custom adapter for LangGraph example."""

    def _parse_response(
        self, data: Dict[str, Any], start_time, end_time
    ) -> ExecutionTrace:
        # Parse LangGraph-specific response format
        # Example: if they use different field names
        steps = []
        for action in data.get("actions", []):
            steps.append(StepTrace(
                step_id=action["id"],
                tool_name=action["tool"],
                parameters=action["input"],
                output=action["result"],
            ))

        return ExecutionTrace(
            session_id=data.get("thread_id", "session-1"),
            steps=steps,
            final_output=data.get("final_answer", ""),
            # ...
        )
```

Then update `.evalview/config.yaml`:
```yaml
adapter: langgraph  # Use your custom adapter
```

And register it in `evalview/cli.py`:
```python
from evalview.adapters.langgraph_adapter import LangGraphAdapter

# In the run command:
if adapter_type == "langgraph":
    adapter = LangGraphAdapter(...)
```

## Example Test Cases

Here are some example test cases for common LangGraph patterns:

### Web Search Test
```yaml
name: "Web Search Test"
input:
  query: "What are the latest news about AI?"
expected:
  tools: [tavily_search]
  output:
    contains: ["AI", "news"]
thresholds:
  min_score: 75
  max_cost: 0.30
  max_latency: 8000
```

### Multi-Step Reasoning Test
```yaml
name: "Multi-Step Reasoning"
input:
  query: "Compare the populations of NYC and LA, then tell me the difference"
expected:
  tools: [web_search, calculator]
  tool_sequence:
    - web_search
    - web_search
    - calculator
  output:
    contains: ["difference", "million"]
thresholds:
  min_score: 80
  max_cost: 0.50
  max_latency: 15000
```

## Tips

1. **Start Simple**: Create one basic test case first, get it working, then add more

2. **Use Verbose Mode**: Always run with `--verbose` initially to understand the API responses

3. **Check Their Tests**: Look at LangGraph example's own tests to understand what the agent can do

4. **Iterate**: Start with loose thresholds, then tighten them as you understand performance

5. **Read Their Docs**: Check their README for API documentation

## Troubleshooting

**LangGraph won't start:**
- Check you have all required API keys in `.env`
- Check Python version (they might require 3.10+)
- Look at their logs for errors

**EvalView can't connect:**
- Verify LangGraph is running: `curl http://localhost:8000`
- Check firewall/network settings
- Try `http://127.0.0.1:8000` instead of `localhost`

**Tests always fail:**
- Run with `--verbose` to see actual vs expected
- Check if API response format matches your test case
- Verify tool names are correct
- Check token usage isn't exceeding cost thresholds

## Next Steps

Once you have basic tests working:

1. **Add More Test Cases** - Cover different scenarios
2. **Set Up CI** - Run tests on every commit
3. **Track Performance** - Monitor cost/latency trends
4. **Refine Thresholds** - Based on actual performance data

---

**Need help?** Open an issue or check the [DEBUGGING.md](DEBUGGING.md) guide.

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/SETUP_LANGGRAPH_EXAMPLE.md, after:

# Testing LangGraph Example with EvalView — Step-by-Step Setup Guide

> Step-by-step guide to test the [LangGraph example](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph-example) with EvalView. Covers setup, test case creation, adapter configuration, and debugging.

---

## Step 1: Set Up LangGraph Example

```bash
# Clone the LangGraph example
cd ~/Downloads  # or wherever you keep projects
git clone https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph-example.git
cd langgraph-example

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env  # If it exists

# Add your API keys to .env
# You'll need:
# - OPENAI_API_KEY
# - ANTHROPIC_API_KEY (if using Claude)
# - TAVILY_API_KEY (for web search, if needed)
```

## Step 2: Run the LangGraph Agent

The LangGraph example typically runs as a FastAPI server. Start it:

```bash
# Check the README for the exact command, but typically:
python main.py
# Or:
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000

# The agent should now be running at http://localhost:8000
```

**Note:** Check the repository's README for the exact startup command.

## Step 3: Test the Agent API Manually

Before using EvalView, verify the agent works:

```bash
# Test with curl
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/chat \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What is the weather in San Francisco?"}'

# Or use their web UI if available
open http://localhost:8000
```

## Step 4: Understand the API Format

Look at the response format. You need to know:
1. **Endpoint URL** - e.g., `http://localhost:8000/api/chat`
2. **Request format** - What fields does it expect? (`query`, `message`, etc.)
3. **Response format** - Does it return `steps`, `output`, `tools_used`?
4. **Is it streaming?** - Does it return JSONL stream or complete JSON?

Example response you might see:
```json
{
  "output": "The weather in SF is...",
  "steps": [
    {
      "tool": "tavily_search",
      "parameters": {"query": "weather san francisco"},
      "output": {...}
    }
  ]
}
```

## Step 5: Set Up EvalView

In a new terminal (keep LangGraph running):

```bash
# Navigate to EvalView directory
cd ~/Downloads/EvalView
source venv/bin/activate

# Initialize EvalView for this agent
evalview init --interactive
```

During setup:
1. **API type**: Choose "Standard REST API" or "Streaming" based on what you found in Step 4
2. **Endpoint**: `http://localhost:8000/api/chat` (or whatever you found)
3. **Model**: Choose the model LangGraph is using (check their .env or code)
4. **Pricing**: Accept defaults or customize

## Step 6: Create a Test Case

Create `tests/test-cases/langgraph-weather.yaml`:

```yaml
name: "LangGraph Weather Test"
description: "Test agent's ability to fetch weather data"

input:
  query: "What is the weather in San Francisco?"
  context: {}

expected:
  tools:
    - tavily_search  # Or whatever tool they use
  tool_sequence:
    - tavily_search
  output:
    contains:
      - "San Francisco"
      - "weather"
    not_contains:
      - "error"
      - "failed"

thresholds:
  min_score: 70
  max_cost: 0.50
  max_latency: 10000
```

**Note:** You'll need to adjust:
- `tools` - Look at the API response to see what tool names they use
- `output.contains` - What should be in the response?

## Step 7: Configure the Adapter (If Needed)

If the LangGraph API format doesn't match EvalView's expectations, edit `.evalview/config.yaml`:

```yaml
adapter: http
endpoint: http://localhost:8000/api/chat
timeout: 30.0
headers:
  Content-Type: application/json

model:
  name: gpt-4o-mini
```

**If they use streaming JSONL:**
```yaml
adapter: streaming
endpoint: http://localhost:8000/api/chat/stream
timeout: 60.0
```

## Step 8: Run EvalView Tests

```bash
# Set your OpenAI API key (for LLM-as-judge)
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key

# Run tests with verbose output to see what's happening
evalview run --verbose

# Or run specific test
evalview run --pattern "langgraph-*.yaml" --verbose
```

## Step 9: Debug if Needed

If tests fail, use verbose mode to see the API response:

```bash
evalview run --verbose
```

Common issues:

### Issue: "No response from agent"
**Fix:** Check that LangGraph is running and the endpoint URL is correct.

```bash
# Test manually
curl http://localhost:8000/api/chat -d '{"query": "test"}'
```

### Issue: "Tool names don't match"
**Fix:** Look at the actual API response in verbose output, update your test case with the correct tool names.

### Issue: "Response format not recognized"
**Fix:** You may need to create a custom adapter. See below.

## Step 10: Create Custom Adapter (Advanced)

If the LangGraph API format is very different, create a custom adapter:

```python
# evalview/adapters/langgraph_adapter.py
from evalview.adapters.http_adapter import HTTPAdapter
from evalview.core.types import ExecutionTrace, StepTrace
from typing import Dict, Any

class LangGraphAdapter(HTTPAdapter):
    """Custom adapter for LangGraph example."""

    def _parse_response(
        self, data: Dict[str, Any], start_time, end_time
    ) -> ExecutionTrace:
        # Parse LangGraph-specific response format
        # Example: if they use different field names
        steps = []
        for action in data.get("actions", []):
            steps.append(StepTrace(
                step_id=action["id"],
                tool_name=action["tool"],
                parameters=action["input"],
                output=action["result"],
            ))

        return ExecutionTrace(
            session_id=data.get("thread_id", "session-1"),
            steps=steps,
            final_output=data.get("final_answer", ""),
            # ...
        )
```

Then update `.evalview/config.yaml`:
```yaml
adapter: langgraph  # Use your custom adapter
```

And register it in `evalview/cli.py`:
```python
from evalview.adapters.langgraph_adapter import LangGraphAdapter

# In the run command:
if adapter_type == "langgraph":
    adapter = LangGraphAdapter(...)
```

## Example Test Cases

Here are some example test cases for common LangGraph patterns:

### Web Search Test
```yaml
name: "Web Search Test"
input:
  query: "What are the latest news about AI?"
expected:
  tools: [tavily_search]
  output:
    contains: ["AI", "news"]
thresholds:
  min_score: 75
  max_cost: 0.30
  max_latency: 8000
```

### Multi-Step Reasoning Test
```yaml
name: "Multi-Step Reasoning"
input:
  query: "Compare the populations of NYC and LA, then tell me the difference"
expected:
  tools: [web_search, calculator]
  tool_sequence:
    - web_search
    - web_search
    - calculator
  output:
    contains: ["difference", "million"]
thresholds:
  min_score: 80
  max_cost: 0.50
  max_latency: 15000
```

## Tips

1. **Start Simple**: Create one basic test case first, get it working, then add more

2. **Use Verbose Mode**: Always run with `--verbose` initially to understand the API responses

3. **Check Their Tests**: Look at LangGraph example's own tests to understand what the agent can do

4. **Iterate**: Start with loose thresholds, then tighten them as you understand performance

5. **Read Their Docs**: Check their README for API documentation

## Troubleshooting

**LangGraph won't start:**
- Check you have all required API keys in `.env`
- Check Python version (they might require 3.10+)
- Look at their logs for errors

**EvalView can't connect:**
- Verify LangGraph is running: `curl http://localhost:8000`
- Check firewall/network settings
- Try `http://127.0.0.1:8000` instead of `localhost`

**Tests always fail:**
- Run with `--verbose` to see actual vs expected
- Check if API response format matches your test case
- Verify tool names are correct
- Check token usage isn't exceeding cost thresholds

## Next Steps

Once you have basic tests working:

1. **Add More Test Cases** - Cover different scenarios
2. **Set Up CI** - Run tests on every commit
3. **Track Performance** - Monitor cost/latency trends
4. **Refine Thresholds** - Based on actual performance data

---

**Need help?** Open an issue or check the [DEBUGGING.md](DEBUGGING.md) guide.
