docs/SKILLS_TESTING.md, before:

# Advanced: Skills Testing (Claude Code, OpenAI Codex & OpenClaw)

> **This is an advanced feature.** For standard agent regression testing, see [Getting Started](GETTING_STARTED.md).
> Use skills testing if you maintain SKILL.md workflows for Claude Code, Codex, or OpenClaw.

> **Your Claude Code skills might be broken.** Claude silently ignores skills that exceed its [15k char budget](https://blog.fsck.com/2025/12/17/claude-code-skills-not-triggering/). EvalView catches this.

**Common symptoms:**
- Skills installed but never trigger
- Claude says "I don't have that skill"
- Works locally, breaks in production
- No errors, just... silence

**Why it happens:** Claude Code has a [15k character budget](https://blog.fsck.com/2025/12/17/claude-code-skills-not-triggering/) for skill descriptions. Exceed it and skills aren't loaded. No warning. No error.

**EvalView catches this before you waste hours debugging.**

---

## 30 Seconds: Validate Your Skill

```bash
pip install evalview
evalview skill validate ./SKILL.md
```

That's it. Catches naming errors, missing fields, reserved words, and spec violations.

**Try it now** with the included example:
```bash
evalview skill validate examples/skills/test-skill/SKILL.md
```

---

## Why Is Claude Ignoring My Skills?

Run the doctor to find out:

```bash
evalview skill doctor ~/.claude/skills/
```

```
⚠️  Character Budget: 127% OVER - Claude is ignoring 4 of your 24 skills

ISSUE: Character budget exceeded
  Claude Code won't see all your skills.
  Fix: Set SLASH_COMMAND_TOOL_CHAR_BUDGET=30000 or reduce descriptions

ISSUE: Duplicate skill names
  code-reviewer defined in:
    - ~/.claude/skills/old/SKILL.md
    - ~/.claude/skills/new/SKILL.md

✗ 4 skills are INVISIBLE to Claude - fix now
```

This is why your skills "don't work." Claude literally can't see them.

---

## 2 Minutes: Add Behavior Tests + CI

**1. Create a test file** next to your SKILL.md:
```yaml
# tests.yaml
name: my-skill-tests
skill: ./SKILL.md

tests:
  - name: basic-test
    input: "Your test prompt"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["expected", "words"]
```

**2. Run locally**
```bash
echo "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key" > .env.local
evalview skill test tests.yaml
```

**3. Add to CI** — copy [examples/skills/test-skill/.github/workflows/skill-tests.yml](../examples/skills/test-skill/.github/workflows/skill-tests.yml) to your repo

> **Starter template:** See [examples/skills/test-skill/](../examples/skills/test-skill/) for a complete copy-paste example with GitHub Actions.

---

## Validate Skill Structure

Catch errors before Claude ever sees your skill:

```bash
# Validate a single skill
evalview skill validate ./my-skill/SKILL.md

# Validate all skills in a directory
evalview skill validate ~/.claude/skills/ -r

# CI-friendly JSON output
evalview skill validate ./skills/ -r --json
```

**Validates against [official Anthropic spec](https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agents-and-tools/agent-skills/best-practices):**
- `name`: max 64 chars, lowercase/numbers/hyphens only, no reserved words ("anthropic", "claude")
- `description`: max 1024 chars, non-empty, no XML tags
- Token size (warns if >5k tokens)
- Policy compliance (no prompt injection patterns)
- Best practices (examples, guidelines sections)

### Example Output

```
━━━ Skill Validation Results ━━━

✓ skills/code-reviewer/SKILL.md
   Name: code-reviewer
   Tokens: ~2,400

✓ skills/doc-writer/SKILL.md
   Name: doc-writer
   Tokens: ~1,800

✗ skills/broken/SKILL.md
   ERROR [MISSING_DESCRIPTION] Skill description is required

Summary: 2 valid, 1 invalid
```

---

## Test Skill Behavior

Validation catches syntax errors. Behavior tests catch **logic errors**.

Define what your skill should do, then verify it actually does it:

```yaml
# tests/code-reviewer.yaml
name: test-code-reviewer
skill: ./skills/code-reviewer/SKILL.md

tests:
  - name: detects-sql-injection
    input: |
      Review this code:
      query = f"SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = {user_id}"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["SQL injection", "parameterized"]
      output_not_contains: ["looks good", "no issues"]

  - name: approves-safe-code
    input: |
      Review this code:
      query = db.execute("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?", [user_id])
    expected:
      output_contains: ["secure", "parameterized"]
      output_not_contains: ["vulnerability", "injection"]
```

Run it:

```bash
# Option 1: Environment variable
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key

# Option 2: Create .env.local file (auto-loaded)
echo "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key" > .env.local

# Run the tests
evalview skill test tests/code-reviewer.yaml
```

### Example Output

```
━━━ Running Skill Tests ━━━

Suite:  test-code-reviewer
Skill:  ./skills/code-reviewer/SKILL.md
Model:  claude-sonnet-4-20250514
Tests:  2

Results:

  PASS detects-sql-injection
  PASS approves-safe-code

Summary: ✓
  Pass rate: 100% (2/2)
  Avg latency: 1,240ms
  Total tokens: 3,847
```

---

## Why Test Skills?

**You can test skills manually in Claude Code. So why use EvalView?**

Manual testing works for development. EvalView is for **automation**:

| Manual Testing | EvalView |
|----------------|----------|
| Test while you write | **Test on every commit** |
| You remember to test | **CI blocks bad merges** |
| Test a few cases | **Test 50+ scenarios** |
| "It works for me" | **Reproducible results** |
| Catch bugs after publish | **Catch bugs before publish** |

**Who needs automated skill testing?**

- **Skill authors** publishing to marketplaces
- **Enterprise teams** rolling out skills to thousands of employees
- **Open source maintainers** accepting contributions from the community
- **Anyone** who wants CI/CD for their skills

Skills are code. Code needs tests. EvalView brings the rigor of software testing to the AI skills ecosystem.

---

## Compatible Platforms

| Platform | Status |
|----------|--------|
| Claude Code | Supported |
| Claude.ai Skills | Supported |
| OpenAI Codex CLI | Same SKILL.md format |
| OpenClaw | Supported (AgentSkills / SKILL.md format) |
| Custom Skills | Any SKILL.md file |

---

## CLI Commands

### `evalview skill validate`

```bash
evalview skill validate PATH [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -r, --recursive    Validate all skills in directory
  --json             Output as JSON (CI-friendly)
```

### `evalview skill test`

```bash
evalview skill test TEST_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --model TEXT       Claude model to use (default: claude-sonnet-4-20250514)
  --agent TEXT       Agent type: system-prompt, claude-code, codex, openclaw,
                     langgraph, crewai, openai-assistants, custom
```

### Testing with OpenClaw

OpenClaw uses [AgentSkills](https://docs.openclaw.ai/tools/skills) (SKILL.md files with YAML frontmatter) to extend its capabilities. EvalView supports testing OpenClaw skills directly:

```bash
# Test a skill through the OpenClaw CLI
evalview skill test tests.yaml --agent openclaw

# YAML configuration for OpenClaw
```

```yaml
# tests/my-openclaw-skill.yaml
name: test-my-skill
skill: ./skills/my-skill/SKILL.md
agent:
  type: openclaw
  timeout: 120
  max_turns: 10

tests:
  - name: basic-test
    input: "Use the skill to do something"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["expected result"]
      files_created: ["output.txt"]
```

OpenClaw must be installed and accessible in your PATH (`pip install openclaw`).

### `evalview skill doctor`

```bash
evalview skill doctor PATH
```

Diagnoses common issues:
- Character budget exceeded
- Duplicate skill names
- Invalid skill structure
- Missing required fields

---

## Related Documentation

- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
- [CI/CD Integration](CI_CD.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/SKILLS_TESTING.md, after:

# Skills Testing — Validate and Test SKILL.md for Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, and OpenClaw

> **Problem:** SKILL.md files for Claude Code and OpenAI Codex can silently fail. Claude ignores skills that exceed its 15k character budget, and there's no built-in way to validate skill structure or test skill behavior before deployment.
>
> **Solution:** EvalView provides `evalview skill validate` for deterministic structure validation (no API key needed) and `evalview skill test` for behavior testing. It catches character budget overflows, missing sections, and broken skill logic before they reach users.

> **This is an advanced feature.** For standard agent regression testing, see [Getting Started](GETTING_STARTED.md).
> Use skills testing if you maintain SKILL.md workflows for Claude Code, Codex, or OpenClaw.

> **Your Claude Code skills might be broken.** Claude silently ignores skills that exceed its [15k char budget](https://blog.fsck.com/2025/12/17/claude-code-skills-not-triggering/). EvalView catches this.

**Common symptoms:**
- Skills installed but never trigger
- Claude says "I don't have that skill"
- Works locally, breaks in production
- No errors, just... silence

**Why it happens:** Claude Code has a [15k character budget](https://blog.fsck.com/2025/12/17/claude-code-skills-not-triggering/) for skill descriptions. Exceed it and skills aren't loaded. No warning. No error.

**EvalView catches this before you waste hours debugging.**

---

## 30 Seconds: Validate Your Skill

```bash
pip install evalview
evalview skill validate ./SKILL.md
```

That's it. Catches naming errors, missing fields, reserved words, and spec violations.

**Try it now** with the included example:
```bash
evalview skill validate examples/skills/test-skill/SKILL.md
```

---

## Why Is Claude Ignoring My Skills?

Run the doctor to find out:

```bash
evalview skill doctor ~/.claude/skills/
```

```
⚠️  Character Budget: 127% OVER - Claude is ignoring 4 of your 24 skills

ISSUE: Character budget exceeded
  Claude Code won't see all your skills.
  Fix: Set SLASH_COMMAND_TOOL_CHAR_BUDGET=30000 or reduce descriptions

ISSUE: Duplicate skill names
  code-reviewer defined in:
    - ~/.claude/skills/old/SKILL.md
    - ~/.claude/skills/new/SKILL.md

✗ 4 skills are INVISIBLE to Claude - fix now
```

This is why your skills "don't work." Claude literally can't see them.

---

## 2 Minutes: Add Behavior Tests + CI

**1. Create a test file** next to your SKILL.md:
```yaml
# tests.yaml
name: my-skill-tests
skill: ./SKILL.md

tests:
  - name: basic-test
    input: "Your test prompt"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["expected", "words"]
```

**2. Run locally**
```bash
echo "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key" > .env.local
evalview skill test tests.yaml
```

**3. Add to CI** — copy [examples/skills/test-skill/.github/workflows/skill-tests.yml](../examples/skills/test-skill/.github/workflows/skill-tests.yml) to your repo

> **Starter template:** See [examples/skills/test-skill/](../examples/skills/test-skill/) for a complete copy-paste example with GitHub Actions.

---

## Validate Skill Structure

Catch errors before Claude ever sees your skill:

```bash
# Validate a single skill
evalview skill validate ./my-skill/SKILL.md

# Validate all skills in a directory
evalview skill validate ~/.claude/skills/ -r

# CI-friendly JSON output
evalview skill validate ./skills/ -r --json
```

**Validates against [official Anthropic spec](https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agents-and-tools/agent-skills/best-practices):**
- `name`: max 64 chars, lowercase/numbers/hyphens only, no reserved words ("anthropic", "claude")
- `description`: max 1024 chars, non-empty, no XML tags
- Token size (warns if >5k tokens)
- Policy compliance (no prompt injection patterns)
- Best practices (examples, guidelines sections)

### Example Output

```
━━━ Skill Validation Results ━━━

✓ skills/code-reviewer/SKILL.md
   Name: code-reviewer
   Tokens: ~2,400

✓ skills/doc-writer/SKILL.md
   Name: doc-writer
   Tokens: ~1,800

✗ skills/broken/SKILL.md
   ERROR [MISSING_DESCRIPTION] Skill description is required

Summary: 2 valid, 1 invalid
```

---

## Test Skill Behavior

Validation catches syntax errors. Behavior tests catch **logic errors**.

Define what your skill should do, then verify it actually does it:

```yaml
# tests/code-reviewer.yaml
name: test-code-reviewer
skill: ./skills/code-reviewer/SKILL.md

tests:
  - name: detects-sql-injection
    input: |
      Review this code:
      query = f"SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = {user_id}"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["SQL injection", "parameterized"]
      output_not_contains: ["looks good", "no issues"]

  - name: approves-safe-code
    input: |
      Review this code:
      query = db.execute("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?", [user_id])
    expected:
      output_contains: ["secure", "parameterized"]
      output_not_contains: ["vulnerability", "injection"]
```

Run it:

```bash
# Option 1: Environment variable
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key

# Option 2: Create .env.local file (auto-loaded)
echo "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your-key" > .env.local

# Run the tests
evalview skill test tests/code-reviewer.yaml
```

### Example Output

```
━━━ Running Skill Tests ━━━

Suite:  test-code-reviewer
Skill:  ./skills/code-reviewer/SKILL.md
Model:  claude-sonnet-4-20250514
Tests:  2

Results:

  PASS detects-sql-injection
  PASS approves-safe-code

Summary: ✓
  Pass rate: 100% (2/2)
  Avg latency: 1,240ms
  Total tokens: 3,847
```

---

## Why Test Skills?

**You can test skills manually in Claude Code. So why use EvalView?**

Manual testing works for development. EvalView is for **automation**:

| Manual Testing | EvalView |
|----------------|----------|
| Test while you write | **Test on every commit** |
| You remember to test | **CI blocks bad merges** |
| Test a few cases | **Test 50+ scenarios** |
| "It works for me" | **Reproducible results** |
| Catch bugs after publish | **Catch bugs before publish** |

**Who needs automated skill testing?**

- **Skill authors** publishing to marketplaces
- **Enterprise teams** rolling out skills to thousands of employees
- **Open source maintainers** accepting contributions from the community
- **Anyone** who wants CI/CD for their skills

Skills are code. Code needs tests. EvalView brings the rigor of software testing to the AI skills ecosystem.

---

## Compatible Platforms

| Platform | Status |
|----------|--------|
| Claude Code | Supported |
| Claude.ai Skills | Supported |
| OpenAI Codex CLI | Same SKILL.md format |
| OpenClaw | Supported (AgentSkills / SKILL.md format) |
| Custom Skills | Any SKILL.md file |

---

## CLI Commands

### `evalview skill validate`

```bash
evalview skill validate PATH [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -r, --recursive    Validate all skills in directory
  --json             Output as JSON (CI-friendly)
```

### `evalview skill test`

```bash
evalview skill test TEST_FILE [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --model TEXT       Claude model to use (default: claude-sonnet-4-20250514)
  --agent TEXT       Agent type: system-prompt, claude-code, codex, openclaw,
                     langgraph, crewai, openai-assistants, custom
```

### Testing with OpenClaw

OpenClaw uses [AgentSkills](https://docs.openclaw.ai/tools/skills) (SKILL.md files with YAML frontmatter) to extend its capabilities. EvalView supports testing OpenClaw skills directly:

```bash
# Test a skill through the OpenClaw CLI
evalview skill test tests.yaml --agent openclaw

# YAML configuration for OpenClaw
```

```yaml
# tests/my-openclaw-skill.yaml
name: test-my-skill
skill: ./skills/my-skill/SKILL.md
agent:
  type: openclaw
  timeout: 120
  max_turns: 10

tests:
  - name: basic-test
    input: "Use the skill to do something"
    expected:
      output_contains: ["expected result"]
      files_created: ["output.txt"]
```

OpenClaw must be installed and accessible in your PATH (`pip install openclaw`).

### `evalview skill doctor`

```bash
evalview skill doctor PATH
```

Diagnoses common issues:
- Character budget exceeded
- Duplicate skill names
- Invalid skill structure
- Missing required fields

---

## Related Documentation

- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
- [CI/CD Integration](CI_CD.md)
