docs/SUITE_TYPES.md, before:

# Suite Types: Capability vs Regression

Not all test failures are equal. Tag your tests to distinguish **expected** failures from **critical** regressions.

---

## Two Types of Tests

### Capability Tests

Measuring what the agent CAN do. Failures are **expected** — you're pushing boundaries.

```yaml
name: complex-multi-step-reasoning
suite_type: capability
thresholds:
  min_score: 70
```

### Regression Tests

Verifying it STILL works. Failures are **red alerts** — something broke.

```yaml
name: login-flow
suite_type: regression
thresholds:
  min_score: 90
```

---

## Console Output

Console output reflects the difference:

```
┌─ Test Results ─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ login-flow          regression  🚨 REGRESSION      │  ← Fix immediately
│ checkout-process    regression  ✅ PASSED          │
│ complex-reasoning   capability  ⚡ CLIMBING        │  ← Expected, keep improving
│ edge-case-handling  capability  ✅ PASSED          │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

By Suite Type:
  Regression:  1/2 (⚠️ 1 regressions!)
  Capability:  1/2 (hill climbing)
```

---

## Why This Matters

| Suite Type | Failure Meaning | Action |
|------------|-----------------|--------|
| **Regression** | Something broke | Block deploy, fix immediately |
| **Capability** | Not there yet | Track progress, keep improving |

**Regression failures block deploys. Capability failures track progress.**

---

## Usage in CI

Configure CI to treat them differently:

```yaml
# Only fail CI on regression test failures
evalview run --fail-on REGRESSION --suite-type regression

# Run capability tests for tracking, but don't fail CI
evalview run --suite-type capability --no-fail
```

---

## When to Use Each

### Use `regression` for:
- Core user flows (login, checkout, search)
- Features that previously worked
- Critical business logic
- Safety checks

### Use `capability` for:
- New features being developed
- Experimental capabilities
- Stretch goals
- Performance optimization targets

---

## Example Test File

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/core-flows.yaml
name: "User Authentication"
suite_type: regression
input:
  query: "Log me in with email test@example.com"
expected:
  tools:
    - authenticate_user
thresholds:
  min_score: 95  # High bar for regression tests

---
# tests/test-cases/experimental.yaml
name: "Complex Multi-Agent Reasoning"
suite_type: capability
input:
  query: "Coordinate three agents to solve this optimization problem"
expected:
  tools:
    - agent_coordinator
    - optimizer
thresholds:
  min_score: 60  # Lower bar, we're still improving
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Behavior Coverage](BEHAVIOR_COVERAGE.md)
- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)
- [CI/CD Integration](CI_CD.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/SUITE_TYPES.md, after:

# Suite Types — Capability vs Regression Tests for AI Agents

> **Problem:** Not all AI agent test failures are equal. A failure on a new experimental feature is expected. A failure on a core user flow is a critical regression. Without distinguishing them, you either ignore all failures or get overwhelmed by false alarms.
>
> **Solution:** EvalView's suite types let you tag tests as `capability` (expected failures, tracking progress) or `regression` (critical failures, block deploys). CI can be configured to fail only on regression failures.

Not all test failures are equal. Tag your tests to distinguish **expected** failures from **critical** regressions.

---

## Two Types of Tests

### Capability Tests

Measuring what the agent CAN do. Failures are **expected** — you're pushing boundaries.

```yaml
name: complex-multi-step-reasoning
suite_type: capability
thresholds:
  min_score: 70
```

### Regression Tests

Verifying it STILL works. Failures are **red alerts** — something broke.

```yaml
name: login-flow
suite_type: regression
thresholds:
  min_score: 90
```

---

## Console Output

Console output reflects the difference:

```
┌─ Test Results ─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ login-flow          regression  🚨 REGRESSION      │  ← Fix immediately
│ checkout-process    regression  ✅ PASSED          │
│ complex-reasoning   capability  ⚡ CLIMBING        │  ← Expected, keep improving
│ edge-case-handling  capability  ✅ PASSED          │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

By Suite Type:
  Regression:  1/2 (⚠️ 1 regressions!)
  Capability:  1/2 (hill climbing)
```

---

## Why This Matters

| Suite Type | Failure Meaning | Action |
|------------|-----------------|--------|
| **Regression** | Something broke | Block deploy, fix immediately |
| **Capability** | Not there yet | Track progress, keep improving |

**Regression failures block deploys. Capability failures track progress.**

---

## Usage in CI

Configure CI to treat them differently:

```yaml
# Only fail CI on regression test failures
evalview run --fail-on REGRESSION --suite-type regression

# Run capability tests for tracking, but don't fail CI
evalview run --suite-type capability --no-fail
```

---

## When to Use Each

### Use `regression` for:
- Core user flows (login, checkout, search)
- Features that previously worked
- Critical business logic
- Safety checks

### Use `capability` for:
- New features being developed
- Experimental capabilities
- Stretch goals
- Performance optimization targets

---

## Example Test File

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/core-flows.yaml
name: "User Authentication"
suite_type: regression
input:
  query: "Log me in with email test@example.com"
expected:
  tools:
    - authenticate_user
thresholds:
  min_score: 95  # High bar for regression tests

---
# tests/test-cases/experimental.yaml
name: "Complex Multi-Agent Reasoning"
suite_type: capability
input:
  query: "Coordinate three agents to solve this optimization problem"
expected:
  tools:
    - agent_coordinator
    - optimizer
thresholds:
  min_score: 60  # Lower bar, we're still improving
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Behavior Coverage](BEHAVIOR_COVERAGE.md)
- [Golden Traces](GOLDEN_TRACES.md)
- [CI/CD Integration](CI_CD.md)
