docs/TOOL_CATEGORIES.md, before:

# Tool Categories (Flexible Matching)

**Problem:** Your test expects `read_file`. Agent uses `bash cat`. Test fails. Both are correct.

**Solution:** Test by *intent*, not exact tool name.

---

## Before (Brittle)

```yaml
expected:
  tools:
    - read_file      # Fails if agent uses bash, text_editor, etc.
```

## After (Flexible)

```yaml
expected:
  categories:
    - file_read      # Passes for read_file, bash cat, text_editor, etc.
```

---

## Built-in Categories

| Category | Matches |
|----------|---------|
| `file_read` | read_file, bash, text_editor, cat, view, str_replace_editor |
| `file_write` | write_file, bash, text_editor, edit_file, create_file |
| `file_list` | list_directory, bash, ls, find, directory_tree |
| `search` | grep, ripgrep, bash, search_files, code_search |
| `shell` | bash, shell, terminal, execute, run_command |
| `web` | web_search, browse, fetch_url, http_request, curl |
| `git` | git, bash, git_commit, git_push, github |
| `python` | python, bash, python_repl, execute_python, jupyter |

---

## Custom Categories

Add project-specific categories in `config.yaml`:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
tool_categories:
  database:
    - postgres_query
    - mysql_execute
    - sql_run
  my_custom_api:
    - internal_api_call
    - legacy_endpoint
```

---

## Why This Matters

Different agents use different tools for the same task. Categories let you test **behavior**, not **implementation**.

For example, all of these accomplish "read a file":
- Claude Code: `read_file`
- OpenAI: `bash` with `cat`
- Custom agent: `text_editor`

With categories, your test passes for all of them:

```yaml
expected:
  categories:
    - file_read  # All three approaches pass
```

---

## Combining Tools and Categories

You can mix exact tool names and categories:

```yaml
expected:
  tools:
    - my_specific_tool    # Must use this exact tool
  categories:
    - file_read           # Plus any file reading approach
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Evaluation Metrics](EVALUATION_METRICS.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/TOOL_CATEGORIES.md, after:

# Tool Categories — Flexible Tool Matching by Intent for AI Agent Tests

> **Problem:** Different AI agents use different tool names for the same action. Your test expects `read_file`, but the agent uses `bash cat`. The test fails even though the behavior is correct.
>
> **Solution:** EvalView's tool categories let you test by intent instead of exact tool name. Define `file_read` and it matches `read_file`, `bash cat`, `text_editor`, and more.

**Problem:** Your test expects `read_file`. Agent uses `bash cat`. Test fails. Both are correct.

**Solution:** Test by *intent*, not exact tool name.

---

## Before (Brittle)

```yaml
expected:
  tools:
    - read_file      # Fails if agent uses bash, text_editor, etc.
```

## After (Flexible)

```yaml
expected:
  categories:
    - file_read      # Passes for read_file, bash cat, text_editor, etc.
```

---

## Built-in Categories

| Category | Matches |
|----------|---------|
| `file_read` | read_file, bash, text_editor, cat, view, str_replace_editor |
| `file_write` | write_file, bash, text_editor, edit_file, create_file |
| `file_list` | list_directory, bash, ls, find, directory_tree |
| `search` | grep, ripgrep, bash, search_files, code_search |
| `shell` | bash, shell, terminal, execute, run_command |
| `web` | web_search, browse, fetch_url, http_request, curl |
| `git` | git, bash, git_commit, git_push, github |
| `python` | python, bash, python_repl, execute_python, jupyter |

---

## Custom Categories

Add project-specific categories in `config.yaml`:

```yaml
# .evalview/config.yaml
tool_categories:
  database:
    - postgres_query
    - mysql_execute
    - sql_run
  my_custom_api:
    - internal_api_call
    - legacy_endpoint
```

---

## Why This Matters

Different agents use different tools for the same task. Categories let you test **behavior**, not **implementation**.

For example, all of these accomplish "read a file":
- Claude Code: `read_file`
- OpenAI: `bash` with `cat`
- Custom agent: `text_editor`

With categories, your test passes for all of them:

```yaml
expected:
  categories:
    - file_read  # All three approaches pass
```

---

## Combining Tools and Categories

You can mix exact tool names and categories:

```yaml
expected:
  tools:
    - my_specific_tool    # Must use this exact tool
  categories:
    - file_read           # Plus any file reading approach
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Evaluation Metrics](EVALUATION_METRICS.md)
- [CLI Reference](CLI_REFERENCE.md)
