docs/TUTORIALS.md, before:

# EvalView Tutorials

Hands-on guides for mastering EvalView's advanced features.

---

## Tutorial 1: Handling Non-Deterministic Agents with Multi-Reference Goldens

### The Problem

Your LLM-based agent produces valid but varied outputs:

```
Run 1: "AAPL stock is $150.23"
Run 2: "Apple Inc (AAPL) trades at $150.23"
Run 3: "Current AAPL price: $150.23"
```

All are correct, but `evalview check` fails because they don't match exactly.

### The Solution: Multi-Reference Goldens

Save multiple acceptable variants as golden baselines.

**Step 1: Create your first snapshot**

```bash
evalview snapshot
# ✅ Snapshotted: stock-price-check
```

**Step 2: Run again and save the variant**

```bash
evalview run --save-golden result.json --variant variant1
```

Or use the simpler workflow:

```bash
evalview snapshot --variant variant1
```

**Step 3: Repeat for variant 2**

```bash
evalview snapshot --variant variant2
```

**Step 4: Check matches ANY variant**

```bash
evalview check
# ✅ Matched variant 2/3
```

### How Multi-Reference Works

- **Compare against ALL variants** - Check runs your test against default + all variants
- **Return best match** - Passes if ANY variant matches (ranked by severity)
- **Up to 5 variants** - Prevents storage bloat
- **Severity ranking**: PASSED > OUTPUT_CHANGED > TOOLS_CHANGED > REGRESSION

### When to Use Variants

✅ **Good use cases:**
- LLM output with acceptable creative variation
- Tools called in different but valid orders
- Equivalent responses with different wording

❌ **Bad use cases:**
- Unstable/flaky agents (fix the agent instead)
- Widely different behaviors (split into separate tests)
- >5 variants needed (test is too broad)

### Managing Variants

```bash
# List all variants
evalview golden list

# Delete a variant
evalview golden delete stock-price-check --variant variant1

# Show variant count
evalview golden list  # Shows "stock-price-check (3 variants)"
```

---

## Tutorial 2: Setting Up Regression Detection in GitHub Actions

### Goal

Automatically catch agent regressions in CI before they reach production.

### Step 1: Create Baseline

On your main branch:

```bash
evalview snapshot
git add .evalview/golden/
git commit -m "Add golden baselines for agent tests"
git push
```

### Step 2: GitHub Actions Workflow

Create `.github/workflows/agent-regression-check.yml`:

```yaml
name: Agent Regression Check
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  regression-check:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Set up Python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v4
        with:
          python-version: '3.9'

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: |
          pip install evalview
          # Install your agent dependencies
          pip install -r requirements.txt

      - name: Run regression check
        run: evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION --json
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}

      - name: Upload results
        if: always()
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: regression-check-results
          path: .evalview/results/
```

### Step 3: Configure Exit Codes

Choose what failures should block PRs:

**Strict mode** (fail on any change):
```yaml
run: evalview check --strict
```

**Selective** (fail only on score regressions):
```yaml
run: evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION
```

**Permissive** (fail on regressions + tool changes):
```yaml
run: evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION,TOOLS_CHANGED
```

### Step 4: PR Comments (Optional)

Add diff summary to PR comments:

```yaml
      - name: Parse results
        if: failure()
        id: parse
        run: |
          SUMMARY=$(evalview check --json | jq -r '.summary')
          echo "summary=$SUMMARY" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT

      - name: Comment PR
        if: failure() && github.event_name == 'pull_request'
        uses: actions/github-script@v6
        with:
          script: |
            github.rest.issues.createComment({
              issue_number: context.issue.number,
              owner: context.repo.owner,
              repo: context.repo.repo,
              body: '⚠️ **Agent Regression Detected**\n\n${{ steps.parse.outputs.summary }}'
            })
```

### Advanced: Parallel Test Matrix

Run multiple agent configurations:

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    model: [gpt-4, claude-3-sonnet]
    agent_config: [default, verbose]

steps:
  - name: Run regression check
    run: evalview check --config ${{ matrix.model }}-${{ matrix.agent_config }}.yaml
```

---

## Tutorial 3: Understanding Diff Statuses

### The 4 Diff Statuses

EvalView uses structured diff statuses to categorize changes.

#### ✅ PASSED

**Meaning**: Behavior matches baseline exactly.

**What it shows:**
```
Diff Summary
  5/5 unchanged
```

**Action**: Ship with confidence.

---

#### ~ OUTPUT_CHANGED

**Meaning**: Tools and sequence correct, but output text differs.

**What it shows:**
```
⚠ OUTPUT_CHANGED: customer-support
  Output similarity: 82%
  Same tools, different wording
```

**Common causes:**
- LLM creativity/temperature
- Timestamp/date changes
- Minor wording variations

**Action**:
- Review output quality
- If acceptable: `evalview snapshot` to update baseline
- If unacceptable: Fix prompt and re-check

---

#### ⚠️ TOOLS_CHANGED

**Meaning**: Agent called different tools or different order.

**What it shows:**
```
⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: stock-analysis
  + web_search (new tool used)
  - calculator (no longer used)
```

**Common causes:**
- Agent found alternative solution path
- Tool availability changed
- Prompt changes affected tool selection

**Action**:
- Verify new tools produce correct results
- Check if old tool was necessary
- Update baseline if change is intentional

---

#### ❌ REGRESSION

**Meaning**: Score dropped significantly (default: >5 points).

**What it shows:**
```
✗ REGRESSION: data-analysis
  Score: 88 → 71 (-17 points)
  Tool sequence differs
  Output quality degraded
```

**Common causes:**
- Broken tools/dependencies
- Model degradation
- Prompt engineering gone wrong
- Test data changed

**Action**:
- **Do not merge** - Fix the issue
- Investigate which component broke
- Run `evalview check` after each fix attempt

---

### Configuring Thresholds

Customize what triggers each status in `.evalview/config.yaml`:

```yaml
diff:
  tool_similarity_threshold: 0.8      # Lower = stricter tool matching
  output_similarity_threshold: 0.9    # Lower = stricter output matching
  score_regression_threshold: 5.0     # Points drop before REGRESSION
```

Or per-test:

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/my-test.yaml
name: flaky-llm-test
adapter_config:
  sequence_mode: "unordered"  # Don't care about tool order

expected:
  min_score: 75
  tools: ["search", "analyze"]

# Custom diff thresholds for this test only
diff_config:
  output_similarity_threshold: 0.85  # More lenient for this test
```

---

## Tutorial 4: Parameter-Level Debugging

### The Problem

Check says "TOOLS_CHANGED" but you don't know WHY.

Before parameter diffing:
```
⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: search-analysis
  Tool: search (changed)
```

### The Solution: Parameter Diffing

After parameter diffing:
```
⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: search-analysis
  Tool: search (changed)
    Parameter differences:
      ~ query:
        golden: "AAPL stock price"
        actual: "AAPL current price"
        similarity: 76%
      - max_results: 10
      + limit: 5
```

### Reading Parameter Diffs

**Symbol meanings:**

| Symbol | Meaning | Example |
|--------|---------|---------|
| `~` | Value changed | `query: "old" → "new"` |
| `-` | Parameter removed | `- max_results: 10` |
| `+` | Parameter added | `+ limit: 5` |
| (none) | Type changed | `id: "123" → 123` |

**Similarity percentage:**
- 90-100%: Nearly identical (typo, minor change)
- 70-89%: Similar (wording variation)
- 50-69%: Moderately different
- 0-49%: Substantially different

### Example: Debugging a Regression

```bash
$ evalview check

⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: stock-search
  Tool: search (changed)
    Parameter differences:
      ~ query:
        golden: "AAPL stock price today"
        actual: ""
        similarity: 0%
```

**Analysis**: Query is empty! This is likely a bug.

**Fix**: Check your prompt or query construction logic.

---

## Tutorial 5: Customizing Celebration Milestones

### Default Milestones

Out of the box, EvalView celebrates:
- 3 checks: "You're on a roll"
- 5 checks: Panel with border
- 10 checks: ASCII art + "Reliability Champion"
- 25 checks: "Legendary" + shareable badge
- 50+ checks: "Incredible" milestone

### Milestone Constants

Defined in `evalview/core/celebrations.py`:

```python
STREAK_MILESTONE_START = 1
STREAK_MILESTONE_SMALL = 3
STREAK_MILESTONE_MEDIUM = 5
STREAK_MILESTONE_LARGE = 10
STREAK_MILESTONE_LEGENDARY = 25
STREAK_MILESTONE_INCREDIBLE = 50
```

### Viewing Your Progress

```bash
$ evalview check

🔍 Comparing against your baseline...
✨ All clean! No regressions detected.

🎯 5 clean checks in a row! You're on a roll.

🟢 Project Health: 100%
  Total checks: 5
  Clean: 5
  Regressions: 0
  Current streak: 5 🔥
  Best streak: 5
```

### Streak Tracking Data

Stored in `.evalview/state.json`:

```json
{
  "current_streak": 5,
  "longest_streak": 10,
  "total_checks": 25,
  "regression_count": 3,
  "milestones_hit": ["streak_3", "streak_5", "streak_10"]
}
```

**Note**: This file is personal (not committed to git).

---

## Tutorial 6: Migrating from `run --diff` to `snapshot/check`

### Old Workflow

```bash
evalview run --save-golden result.json
# ... make changes ...
evalview run --diff
```

**Pain points:**
- Have to remember result file path
- Verbose output
- Not memorable

### New Workflow

```bash
evalview snapshot
# ... make changes ...
evalview check
```

**Benefits:**
- No file paths to remember
- Concise, diff-focused output
- Habit-forming streak tracking
- Celebratory feedback

### Migration Guide

**Step 1**: If you have existing golden files, they still work:

```bash
# Your old goldens in .evalview/golden/ are compatible
evalview check  # Works immediately
```

**Step 2**: Update your CI:

```diff
- evalview run --diff --fail-on REGRESSION
+ evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION --json
```

**Step 3**: Update your docs/README:

```diff
- To create baseline: evalview run --save-golden
+ To create baseline: evalview snapshot

- To check for regressions: evalview run --diff
+ To check for regressions: evalview check
```

### Backward Compatibility

Both workflows coexist:

```bash
# Old way still works
evalview run --save-golden
evalview run --diff

# New way (recommended)
evalview snapshot
evalview check
```

---

## Tutorial 7: Interpreting Reason Codes

### What are Reason Codes?

Structured, machine-readable error codes with remediation guidance.

### Example

```bash
$ evalview check

Failure Reasons:
  ✗ TOOL_MISSING: Expected tool 'calculator' was not called
    → Fix: Ensure your agent has access to 'calculator' and the query triggers its use

  ⚠ PARAM_VALUE_CHANGED: search.query changed
    Details: {"expected": "AAPL stock", "actual": "AAPL"}
    → Fix: Update test case if this is intentional
```

### Common Reason Codes

| Code | Severity | Meaning | Fix |
|------|----------|---------|-----|
| `TOOL_MISSING` | error | Expected tool not called | Check agent tool access |
| `TOOL_UNEXPECTED` | info | Agent called extra tool | Add to test if correct |
| `TOOL_NAME_MISMATCH` | warning | Case/naming difference | Update test case name |
| `SEQUENCE_LENGTH_MISMATCH` | error | Wrong number of tools | Check agent logic |
| `SEQUENCE_ORDER_VIOLATION` | error | Tools out of order | Use `sequence_mode: unordered` if order doesn't matter |
| `PARAM_VALUE_CHANGED` | warning | Parameter value differs | Review and snapshot if OK |
| `PARAM_TYPE_MISMATCH` | error | Parameter type changed | Check serialization |

### Using Reason Codes in CI

```bash
evalview check --json | jq '.diffs[].reason_codes'
```

Output:
```json
[
  {
    "code": "TOOL_MISSING",
    "severity": "error",
    "message": "Expected tool 'search' was not called",
    "context": {
      "expected_tool": "search",
      "actual_tools": ["analyze"]
    },
    "remediation": "Ensure your agent has access to 'search'"
  }
]
```

---

## Next Steps

- **More examples**: See `examples/` directory
- **API Reference**: Coming soon
- **Community**: GitHub Discussions for questions
- **Contributing**: See CONTRIBUTING.md

---

**Questions?** Open an issue or discussion on GitHub!

Commit message:

docs: make all documentation AI-agent-friendly for discoverability
Add llms.txt and llms-full.txt files following the emerging standard
for AI agent crawlers, enabling tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,
and Perplexity to discover and recommend EvalView for AI agent testing.

Overhaul README.md with structured metadata, clear competitive
positioning table (vs LangSmith, Braintrust, Promptfoo), and
keyword-rich headers that match common user queries.

Update all 31 docs/, 12 examples/, 2 guides/, and gym/ markdown files
with:
- Problem/solution blockquote headers that AI agents can match to queries
- Keyword-rich titles (e.g., "Golden Traces — Automatic Regression
  Detection for AI Agents")
- Clear descriptions of what each doc covers
- Expanded FAQ with comparison questions, framework support, and
  troubleshooting entries that mirror how users actually ask questions

https://claude.ai/code/session_014HLihmMyMmKi7hiMgGwZAb

docs/TUTORIALS.md, after:

# EvalView Tutorials — Step-by-Step Guides for AI Agent Testing

> Hands-on guides for mastering EvalView's advanced features, including multi-reference goldens, CI/CD regression detection, diff status interpretation, parameter-level debugging, and migration from older workflows.

---

## Tutorial 1: Handling Non-Deterministic Agents with Multi-Reference Goldens

### The Problem

Your LLM-based agent produces valid but varied outputs:

```
Run 1: "AAPL stock is $150.23"
Run 2: "Apple Inc (AAPL) trades at $150.23"
Run 3: "Current AAPL price: $150.23"
```

All are correct, but `evalview check` fails because they don't match exactly.

### The Solution: Multi-Reference Goldens

Save multiple acceptable variants as golden baselines.

**Step 1: Create your first snapshot**

```bash
evalview snapshot
# ✅ Snapshotted: stock-price-check
```

**Step 2: Run again and save the variant**

```bash
evalview run --save-golden result.json --variant variant1
```

Or use the simpler workflow:

```bash
evalview snapshot --variant variant1
```

**Step 3: Repeat for variant 2**

```bash
evalview snapshot --variant variant2
```

**Step 4: Check matches ANY variant**

```bash
evalview check
# ✅ Matched variant 2/3
```

### How Multi-Reference Works

- **Compare against ALL variants** - Check runs your test against default + all variants
- **Return best match** - Passes if ANY variant matches (ranked by severity)
- **Up to 5 variants** - Prevents storage bloat
- **Severity ranking**: PASSED > OUTPUT_CHANGED > TOOLS_CHANGED > REGRESSION

### When to Use Variants

✅ **Good use cases:**
- LLM output with acceptable creative variation
- Tools called in different but valid orders
- Equivalent responses with different wording

❌ **Bad use cases:**
- Unstable/flaky agents (fix the agent instead)
- Widely different behaviors (split into separate tests)
- >5 variants needed (test is too broad)

### Managing Variants

```bash
# List all variants
evalview golden list

# Delete a variant
evalview golden delete stock-price-check --variant variant1

# Show variant count
evalview golden list  # Shows "stock-price-check (3 variants)"
```

---

## Tutorial 2: Setting Up Regression Detection in GitHub Actions

### Goal

Automatically catch agent regressions in CI before they reach production.

### Step 1: Create Baseline

On your main branch:

```bash
evalview snapshot
git add .evalview/golden/
git commit -m "Add golden baselines for agent tests"
git push
```

### Step 2: GitHub Actions Workflow

Create `.github/workflows/agent-regression-check.yml`:

```yaml
name: Agent Regression Check
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  regression-check:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Set up Python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v4
        with:
          python-version: '3.9'

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: |
          pip install evalview
          # Install your agent dependencies
          pip install -r requirements.txt

      - name: Run regression check
        run: evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION --json
        env:
          OPENAI_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}

      - name: Upload results
        if: always()
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: regression-check-results
          path: .evalview/results/
```

### Step 3: Configure Exit Codes

Choose what failures should block PRs:

**Strict mode** (fail on any change):
```yaml
run: evalview check --strict
```

**Selective** (fail only on score regressions):
```yaml
run: evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION
```

**Permissive** (fail on regressions + tool changes):
```yaml
run: evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION,TOOLS_CHANGED
```

### Step 4: PR Comments (Optional)

Add diff summary to PR comments:

```yaml
      - name: Parse results
        if: failure()
        id: parse
        run: |
          SUMMARY=$(evalview check --json | jq -r '.summary')
          echo "summary=$SUMMARY" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT

      - name: Comment PR
        if: failure() && github.event_name == 'pull_request'
        uses: actions/github-script@v6
        with:
          script: |
            github.rest.issues.createComment({
              issue_number: context.issue.number,
              owner: context.repo.owner,
              repo: context.repo.repo,
              body: '⚠️ **Agent Regression Detected**\n\n${{ steps.parse.outputs.summary }}'
            })
```

### Advanced: Parallel Test Matrix

Run multiple agent configurations:

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    model: [gpt-4, claude-3-sonnet]
    agent_config: [default, verbose]

steps:
  - name: Run regression check
    run: evalview check --config ${{ matrix.model }}-${{ matrix.agent_config }}.yaml
```

---

## Tutorial 3: Understanding Diff Statuses

### The 4 Diff Statuses

EvalView uses structured diff statuses to categorize changes.

#### ✅ PASSED

**Meaning**: Behavior matches baseline exactly.

**What it shows:**
```
Diff Summary
  5/5 unchanged
```

**Action**: Ship with confidence.

---

#### ~ OUTPUT_CHANGED

**Meaning**: Tools and sequence correct, but output text differs.

**What it shows:**
```
⚠ OUTPUT_CHANGED: customer-support
  Output similarity: 82%
  Same tools, different wording
```

**Common causes:**
- LLM creativity/temperature
- Timestamp/date changes
- Minor wording variations

**Action**:
- Review output quality
- If acceptable: `evalview snapshot` to update baseline
- If unacceptable: Fix prompt and re-check

---

#### ⚠️ TOOLS_CHANGED

**Meaning**: Agent called different tools or different order.

**What it shows:**
```
⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: stock-analysis
  + web_search (new tool used)
  - calculator (no longer used)
```

**Common causes:**
- Agent found alternative solution path
- Tool availability changed
- Prompt changes affected tool selection

**Action**:
- Verify new tools produce correct results
- Check if old tool was necessary
- Update baseline if change is intentional

---

#### ❌ REGRESSION

**Meaning**: Score dropped significantly (default: >5 points).

**What it shows:**
```
✗ REGRESSION: data-analysis
  Score: 88 → 71 (-17 points)
  Tool sequence differs
  Output quality degraded
```

**Common causes:**
- Broken tools/dependencies
- Model degradation
- Prompt engineering gone wrong
- Test data changed

**Action**:
- **Do not merge** - Fix the issue
- Investigate which component broke
- Run `evalview check` after each fix attempt

---

### Configuring Thresholds

Customize what triggers each status in `.evalview/config.yaml`:

```yaml
diff:
  tool_similarity_threshold: 0.8      # Lower = stricter tool matching
  output_similarity_threshold: 0.9    # Lower = stricter output matching
  score_regression_threshold: 5.0     # Points drop before REGRESSION
```

Or per-test:

```yaml
# tests/test-cases/my-test.yaml
name: flaky-llm-test
adapter_config:
  sequence_mode: "unordered"  # Don't care about tool order

expected:
  min_score: 75
  tools: ["search", "analyze"]

# Custom diff thresholds for this test only
diff_config:
  output_similarity_threshold: 0.85  # More lenient for this test
```

---

## Tutorial 4: Parameter-Level Debugging

### The Problem

Check says "TOOLS_CHANGED" but you don't know WHY.

Before parameter diffing:
```
⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: search-analysis
  Tool: search (changed)
```

### The Solution: Parameter Diffing

After parameter diffing:
```
⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: search-analysis
  Tool: search (changed)
    Parameter differences:
      ~ query:
        golden: "AAPL stock price"
        actual: "AAPL current price"
        similarity: 76%
      - max_results: 10
      + limit: 5
```

### Reading Parameter Diffs

**Symbol meanings:**

| Symbol | Meaning | Example |
|--------|---------|---------|
| `~` | Value changed | `query: "old" → "new"` |
| `-` | Parameter removed | `- max_results: 10` |
| `+` | Parameter added | `+ limit: 5` |
| (none) | Type changed | `id: "123" → 123` |

**Similarity percentage:**
- 90-100%: Nearly identical (typo, minor change)
- 70-89%: Similar (wording variation)
- 50-69%: Moderately different
- 0-49%: Substantially different

### Example: Debugging a Regression

```bash
$ evalview check

⚠ TOOLS_CHANGED: stock-search
  Tool: search (changed)
    Parameter differences:
      ~ query:
        golden: "AAPL stock price today"
        actual: ""
        similarity: 0%
```

**Analysis**: Query is empty! This is likely a bug.

**Fix**: Check your prompt or query construction logic.

---

## Tutorial 5: Customizing Celebration Milestones

### Default Milestones

Out of the box, EvalView celebrates:
- 3 checks: "You're on a roll"
- 5 checks: Panel with border
- 10 checks: ASCII art + "Reliability Champion"
- 25 checks: "Legendary" + shareable badge
- 50+ checks: "Incredible" milestone

### Milestone Constants

Defined in `evalview/core/celebrations.py`:

```python
STREAK_MILESTONE_START = 1
STREAK_MILESTONE_SMALL = 3
STREAK_MILESTONE_MEDIUM = 5
STREAK_MILESTONE_LARGE = 10
STREAK_MILESTONE_LEGENDARY = 25
STREAK_MILESTONE_INCREDIBLE = 50
```

### Viewing Your Progress

```bash
$ evalview check

🔍 Comparing against your baseline...
✨ All clean! No regressions detected.

🎯 5 clean checks in a row! You're on a roll.

🟢 Project Health: 100%
  Total checks: 5
  Clean: 5
  Regressions: 0
  Current streak: 5 🔥
  Best streak: 5
```

### Streak Tracking Data

Stored in `.evalview/state.json`:

```json
{
  "current_streak": 5,
  "longest_streak": 10,
  "total_checks": 25,
  "regression_count": 3,
  "milestones_hit": ["streak_3", "streak_5", "streak_10"]
}
```

**Note**: This file is personal (not committed to git).

---

## Tutorial 6: Migrating from `run --diff` to `snapshot/check`

### Old Workflow

```bash
evalview run --save-golden result.json
# ... make changes ...
evalview run --diff
```

**Pain points:**
- Have to remember result file path
- Verbose output
- Not memorable

### New Workflow

```bash
evalview snapshot
# ... make changes ...
evalview check
```

**Benefits:**
- No file paths to remember
- Concise, diff-focused output
- Habit-forming streak tracking
- Celebratory feedback

### Migration Guide

**Step 1**: If you have existing golden files, they still work:

```bash
# Your old goldens in .evalview/golden/ are compatible
evalview check  # Works immediately
```

**Step 2**: Update your CI:

```diff
- evalview run --diff --fail-on REGRESSION
+ evalview check --fail-on REGRESSION --json
```

**Step 3**: Update your docs/README:

```diff
- To create baseline: evalview run --save-golden
+ To create baseline: evalview snapshot

- To check for regressions: evalview run --diff
+ To check for regressions: evalview check
```

### Backward Compatibility

Both workflows coexist:

```bash
# Old way still works
evalview run --save-golden
evalview run --diff

# New way (recommended)
evalview snapshot
evalview check
```

---

## Tutorial 7: Interpreting Reason Codes

### What are Reason Codes?

Structured, machine-readable error codes with remediation guidance.

### Example

```bash
$ evalview check

Failure Reasons:
  ✗ TOOL_MISSING: Expected tool 'calculator' was not called
    → Fix: Ensure your agent has access to 'calculator' and the query triggers its use

  ⚠ PARAM_VALUE_CHANGED: search.query changed
    Details: {"expected": "AAPL stock", "actual": "AAPL"}
    → Fix: Update test case if this is intentional
```

### Common Reason Codes

| Code | Severity | Meaning | Fix |
|------|----------|---------|-----|
| `TOOL_MISSING` | error | Expected tool not called | Check agent tool access |
| `TOOL_UNEXPECTED` | info | Agent called extra tool | Add to test if correct |
| `TOOL_NAME_MISMATCH` | warning | Case/naming difference | Update test case name |
| `SEQUENCE_LENGTH_MISMATCH` | error | Wrong number of tools | Check agent logic |
| `SEQUENCE_ORDER_VIOLATION` | error | Tools out of order | Use `sequence_mode: unordered` if order doesn't matter |
| `PARAM_VALUE_CHANGED` | warning | Parameter value differs | Review and snapshot if OK |
| `PARAM_TYPE_MISMATCH` | error | Parameter type changed | Check serialization |

### Using Reason Codes in CI

```bash
evalview check --json | jq '.diffs[].reason_codes'
```

Output:
```json
[
  {
    "code": "TOOL_MISSING",
    "severity": "error",
    "message": "Expected tool 'search' was not called",
    "context": {
      "expected_tool": "search",
      "actual_tools": ["analyze"]
    },
    "remediation": "Ensure your agent has access to 'search'"
  }
]
```

---

## Next Steps

- **More examples**: See `examples/` directory
- **API Reference**: Coming soon
- **Community**: GitHub Discussions for questions
- **Contributing**: See CONTRIBUTING.md

---

**Questions?** Open an issue or discussion on GitHub!
